
Ipswich Town earned their first point of the Premier League season but were denied victory by Adama Traore's leveller in a 1-1 draw with Fulham at Portman Road. 
The Tractor Boys’ search for a first top-flight victory since April 2002 started in stunning fashion as Liam Delap rifled the ball home after good work from Leif Davis. 
However, Fulham would respond in the 32nd minute as Traore rounded off a free-flowing move to level the encounter. 
Both sides traded blows in search of an important three points at this early stage of the season, with Chiedozie Ogbene and Raul Jimenez seeing their efforts repelled in a seesaw second half. 
With neither team able to find a winner, Ipswich sit 16th in the early-season standings, while Fulham are just inside the top half of the table ahead of the weekend's remaining fixtures.
How the match unfolded
The visitors' attempts to take control of proceedings were halted by a bolt from Ipswich blue as Delap’s driving run from deep ended with a finish into the top corner, aided by the fingertips of Bernd Leno.
But the Tractor Boys’ joy was short-lived as Antonee Robinson’s teasing delivery was turned home by Traore, with Rodrigo Muniz’s header almost giving them the lead a minute later. 
Ipswich's new signing Ogbene almost marked his debut with a goal, seeing his header saved by Leno as Sam Szmodics could only fire the rebound high into the stands. 
The hosts started the second half strongly in their attempts to reclaim their advantage, as Delap was denied his second of the match by the palms of Leno. 
Ogbene was again denied by Leno as he raced through on goal, while Jimenez failed to make the visitors’ best second-half chance count as his shot stung the palms of Arijanet Muric, before Omari Hutchinson went close for Ipswich in stoppage time. 
Championship stars continue Premier League adjustment 
Of those that started the encounter for Ipswich, eight played their football in the Championship last term, with three more introduced from the bench. 
Kieran McKenna needs his additions from the second tier to adapt quickly if they are to extend their top-flight stay beyond one season. 
Jacob Greaves, Szmodics and substitute Jack Clarke have come in to give the Tractor Boys exciting options, showing early on this term that they are suited to the step up. 
Hutchinson and Davis also impressed for the hosts, with the former going close to stroking the ball home for a memorable three points at the death, but it wasn’t meant to be. 
The result marks a milestone for McKenna as he claims a first point in the top-flight, and he will be closely marking fixtures at Portman Road on his calendar, having already provided stern tests for both Liverpool and Fulham. 
Nervy Fulham fail to overcome slow start 
After impressing in their opening two Premier League fixtures, Fulham failed to lay a glove on their opponents in front of a raucous Portman Road in the opening exchanges. 
Robinson’s miscued pass was the epitome of their slow start, almost costing his side early on as Greaves’ headed effort was brilliantly kept out by Leno. 
Delap’s moment of individual brilliance was the least Ipswich deserved for their electric start, and Traore's equaliser failed to click the visitors into gear. 
A tepid second-half display saw only two of Fulham’s four attempts trouble Muric in the Ipswich goal, though Jimenez's late introduction gave them a focal point in attack after Muniz failed to make the desired impact up front. 
But there are positives for Marco Silva to take from a resolute defensive display, accompanied by the first minutes for recent arrival Sander Berge in midfield. However, Fulham will want to improve when they welcome West Ham United to Craven Cottage after the international break.
Club reports
Ipswich report | Fulham report
What the managers said
Kieran Mckenna: "It is a step in the right direction, and so was the performance. We are adapting to the level, improving all the time and integrating players all the time, we had six players who have joined us this summer.
"We were competing against a well-established team at this level so to compete how we did is a positive and we feel we have lots to come.
"Some of our pressing in the first half was excellent, and the organisation and discipline against a team that can give you problems was really, really good."
Marco Silva:  "The reaction from us was good, we scored a good equaliser and after that we took a step forward and were completely in control.
"The second half was a lot more difficult for us, we were not able to control the game the way we liked. We were solid, we did not give many things but we did not create.
"We should create a lot more when we are on the ball, we have to be more effective in our build up and have more chances to score."
Match officials
Referee: Lewis Smith. Assistants: Scott Ledger, Matthew Wilkes. Fourth official: Tim Robinson. VAR: Peter Bankes. Assistant VAR: Marc Perry.
