
AFC Bournemouth were denied a dramatic winner against Newcastle United as Dango Ouattara's stoppage-time goal was overturned following a VAR review in Sunday's 1-1 draw.
The Cherries would have been deserving victors at the Vitality Stadium in a match celebrating the club's 125th anniversary, having controlled both before and after Marcus Tavernier's first-half opener.
But Anthony Gordon equalised with 14 minutes to play, setting the stage for a chaotic finale in which both sides came close to claiming all three points.
It looked as though substitute Ouattara would have the decisive say, only for his effort to be ruled out for striking his arm
Former Bournemouth boss Eddie Howe is still yet to beat his old side in the Premier League, but would have been relieved to come away with a point that keeps Newcastle within touch of the teams at the top, while the Cherries remain winless.
How the match unfolded
Bournemouth could have scored twice before Tavernier's opener, with Nick Pope saving superbly from debutant Evanilson and then watching Antoine Semenyo's fine effort bounce away off the crossbar.
It was Semenyo who forged the breakthrough after 37 minutes, stealing possession from Joelinton before advancing into the area and squaring to Tavernier in front of an open goal, while a cross from the same man after the hour should have seen Evanilson off the mark.
Harvey Barnes’s introduction helped spur Newcastle back into the contest, and after Alexander Isak and Joelinton went close with headers, the substitute winger supplied a superb delivery from which Gordon converted.
Chances followed at either end, with Neto denying both Dan Burn and Bruno Guimaraes, before Ouattara celebrated an apparent winner, only for the goal to be disallowed when it was judged that the ball came off the top of the Bournemouth player's arm, rather than his head, following a corner.
New man missing decisive touch
Bournemouth won this fixture 2-0 last season, with Dominic Solanke scoring both goals. Evanilson is the man the Cherries have brought in to replace their departed talisman, but he could not repeat the feat on Sunday.
The Brazil international kept the Newcastle centre-backs busy and drew one sharp stop from Pope, yet he surely should have scored when Semenyo's footwork dazzled Lloyd Kelly to create space for a teasing centre.
That goal may well have been enough to win the game, stop the Newcastle fightback before it began, and avoid the late drama that left Bournemouth so frustrated.
Had Evanilson found the net, a second assist also would have been no less than Semenyo deserved. In the absence of Solanke, he was Bournemouth's chief attacking threat, firmly winning his battle with former club-mate Kelly.
If the exciting winger continues to create such opportunities, both Evanilson and winless Bournemouth will surely get off the mark soon enough.
Attacking approach pays off for Howe
Newcastle's away form had been a problem in the first half of last season, with Howe openly identifying their record on the road as key to their hopes of an improved campaign this time out.
It was more of the same in many ways on Sunday, and their performance in attacking terms was perhaps even more concerning prior to the second-half substitutions.
The Magpies offered precious little until Barnes arrived and changed the game with his direct running, clearly determined to make his mark after a frustrating first season on Tyneside.
Kieran Trippier, whose future is reportedly uncertain, appeared alongside Barnes, while Lewis Hall and Joe Willock were also introduced before Gordon's leveller, with an attacking line-up belatedly securing a foothold in the match for Newcastle.
This ambitious approach could have cost them at the other end as they were exposed from a stoppage-time corner, but they looked much more like themselves going forward and Howe may see this as a blueprint for the season ahead.
Club reports
AFC Bournemouth report | Newcastle report
Match officials
Referee: David Coote. Assistants: Lee Betts, Craig Taylor. Fourth official: Simon Hooper. VAR: Tim Robinson. Assistant VAR: Neil Davies.
