
Dwight McNeil’s double secured Everton’s first three points of the Premier League season, coming from behind to beat Crystal Palace 2-1 at Goodison Park.
Marc Guehi gave the visitors an early lead, poking home at the near post, seeming to signal the continuation of Everton’s woes.
But Sean Dyche’s side rallied after the break, with McNeil hitting the back of the net with a delightful long-range strike in the 47th minute before adding a second at the far post just seven minutes later as they continued their fine form against Palace at Goodison Park.
The win lifts Everton out of the relegation zone and up to 15th, leapfrogging Palace, who drop to 17th.
How the match unfolded
Guehi was alert to give the visitors the lead after 10 minutes from a short-corner routine – Maxence Lacroix nodded down Adam Wharton’s cross at the back post for the captain to poke past Jordan Pickford.
Palace found more success from their corners as the half went on and nearly scored a goal identical to their first, only for Iliman Ndiaye to block Daniel Munoz’s shot.
Two minutes after the restart, McNeil found space outside the box, unleashing a curling effort that nestled spectacularly in the far-left top corner.
He then truly stamped his mark seven minutes later. A floated cross from Jack Harrison on the right found the midfielder at the far post, and he took a touch before volleying home from a tight angle.
Abdoulaye Doucoure had the opportunity to put the game to bed with 10 minutes left, but a last-ditch challenge from Lacroix spared Palace’s blushes.
McNeil gifts Everton a comeback of their own
Everton’s last three Premier League matches have seen them drop points from leading positions.
Yet individual brilliance from McNeil gave the Toffees a taste of that comeback delight in an impressive second-half display from the hosts.
Their first half was lacklustre, as Everton only created limited chances – Calvert-Lewin squandered their best opportunity, failing to make contact with McNeil’s cross in front of goal.
After the restart, McNeil took matters into his own hands and dazzled with his stunning long-range effort off the right which Dean Henderson had no chance of getting to.
His second was equally impressive. Harrison’s ball from the right was perfectly weighted, and McNeil showed impressive control to set the ball up with his first touch before firing home with his second.
It was a much-needed three points for a struggling Everton side who showed good resilience to hold onto a lead for the first time this season, and Dyche will be hoping they can truly kickstart their season from here.
A tale of two halves for the Palace defence
The focal point in defence was meant to be the return of Jarrad Branthwaite for the hosts, but it was Palace’s back three who delivered the goods at both ends in the first half.
The combination of Guehi and Lacroix gave the visitors an early lead as the latter leapt highest by some distance to meet Wharton’s cross. Though he looked to be going for goal, instead it was Guehi who got the deciding touch to turn it home.
It was an equally astute performance from the pair in defence to keep Palace’s clean sheet intact until half-time on Merseyside.
They dominated the air to clear on numerous occasions, neutralising the aerial threat of Calvert-Lewin.
So it was unsurprising that Everton’s breakthrough came from range as McNeil was left with too much space in the midfield after a sloppy giveaway, and they continued to struggle with McNeil’s clinical edge.
Following the Everton midfielder’s two-goal salvo, the aerial assurance was restored as Lacroix silenced Calvert-Lewin for the duration.
Even with goalkeeper Henderson’s last-minute header from a corner, the defence could not save Palace from defeat.
Club reports
Everton report | Crystal Palace report
Match officials 
Referee: Andy Madley. Assistants: Nick Hopton, Blake Antrobus. Fourth official: Tony Harrington. VAR: Graham Scott. Assistant VAR: Simon Bennett.
