
AFC Bournemouth began life without Dominic Solanke by battling to a 1-1 draw at Nottingham Forest on the opening matchweek of the Premier League season.
Andoni Iraola's second season in charge of the Cherries looked set to begin with a defeat when Chris Wood pounced from close range to give Forest a first-half lead.
However, Bournemouth plugged away in search of an equlaiser and were rewarded in the 86th minute as Harry Toffolo's clearance rebounded kindly for Antoine Semenyo to lash home, having been selected as a central striker following Solanke's move to Tottenham Hotspur.
Forest's frustrations were compounded by a potentially serious injury suffered by Danilo, who received lengthy treatment before being carried off on a stretcher early in the first half.
A long stoppage was required just eight minutes in as Danilo fell awkwardly following a challenge involving Semenyo, the Brazilian being carried off on a stretcher with a suspected ankle injury.
Danilo's replacement Ryan Yates played a key role as Forest made the breakthrough after 23 minutes. His low shot was spilled by goalkeeper Neto right into the path of Wood, and the striker made no mistake from close range.
Anthony Elanga went close moments later with a curling shot from outside the box, which Neto had to keep out with a smart save, then Bournemouth thought they had levelled when Dango Ouattara smashed an effort into the roof of the net.
However, the goal was disallowed following a VAR review, with Lewis Cook found to have strayed offside in the build-up.
The second half began with Forest still on top, and they nearly doubled their advantage from a corner, only for Neto to make a solid stop to keep out Willy Boly’s header.
Having toiled in attack for much of the contest, Bournemouth equalised with four minutes of the 90 remaining, as Toffolo's clearance struck Murillo and bounced straight to Semenyo, who finished from six yards out.
Bournemouth nearly nicked it against the run of play at the death, but Murillo was on hand to deny substitute Daniel Jebbison with a vital clearance to preserve Forest's point.
Encouraging signs for Forest
Despite the sucker punch they suffered near the end of the match, Forest head coach Nuno Espirito Santo will surely be encouraged by his side’s performance.
The Forest eleven which started the encounter was a familiar one and this looked to be to their advantage, with the hosts showing real fluency when holding possession, while also looking equally committed when applying the press to Bournemouth.
They created the better chances in the match, with Elanga and Callum Hudson-Odoi both going close with low, thundering efforts which had to be kept out by Neto.
The positivity around their performance will be dampened by the injury to Danilo in the opening exchanges of the match, however.
Forest will be on the hunt for their first win of the season when they travel to newly promoted Southampton next week.
Life after Solanke for the Cherries
Following the loss of Solanke, Bournemouth could take encouragement from Semenyo stepping up as a replacement.
He was a constant threat for the Cherries and was rewarded with a late goal to earn a point for his side.
Though the visitors lacked potency in the first half, Semenyo still showed his quality, going close with a bending effort which went inches away from Matz Sels’s right hand post.
Their frontline should soon be bolstered by the signing of Evanilson from Porto and Cherries fans will hope he can link up well with the likes of Semenyo and Luis Sinisterra, who endured one of his quieter outings on Saturday.
Bournemouth will now look forward to their first home game of the season against Newcastle in eight days' time.
What managers said
Nuno Espirito Santo: "I'm disappointed with how we concede, we had the game under control. It was a tough game, a good game, both teams had momentum. We could have had more."
Andoni Iraola: "I am probably pleased because you score at the end and you feel like you recovered one point. At the end we level the game. We probably had more chances but from set-pieces they are difficult. I think in the end it is fair."
Club reports
Forest report | Bournemouth report
