
Everton old boy Anthony Gordon saw a penalty saved on his return to Goodison Park as Newcastle United were held to a 0-0 draw.
Gordon had been Newcastle's spot-kick hero last week, winning and converting a penalty to earn a point against Manchester City, but his failure this time cost the Magpies.
After James Tarkowski's foolish foul on Sandro Tonali gave Gordon, who left Everton for Newcastle in January 2023, his opportunity from 12 yards, he could not find a way past England team-mate Jordan Pickford.
The save from Pickford was heartily celebrated by the Everton fans, though their frustration was directed at referee Craig Pawson midway through the second half, when Dominic Calvert-Lewin felt he too should have had a penalty.
A point nudges Sean Dyche's side further clear of the relegation zone in 16th, while Newcastle can at least take solace in a place in the top six, leapfrogging Fulham.
How the match unfolded
Iliman Ndiaye thwarted Bruno Guimaraes with a superb goal-line clearance early on, and the hosts thought they were ahead when Abdoulaye Doucoure headed in James Garner's cross, only to be ruled offside.
That decision was given following a VAR review, and referee Pawson was soon called to the pitchside monitor before awarding a penalty after Tarkowski tangled with Tonali.
But Pickford won the battle of wits with Gordon from the spot, diving to his left and keeping out a tame effort with his legs.
Everton wanted a penalty of their own in the second half as Calvert-Lewin went down under Dan Burn’s challenge when he looked certain to tuck in following Nick Pope’s save. Appeals were waved away as Idrissa Gana Gueye blazed the rebound over.
Gordon should still have had the final say, played in on goal by Miguel Almiron with eight minutes to play, but he blasted off target as Newcastle were forced to settle for a point.
Team-mates save toiling Tarkowski
Calvert-Lewin and Everton thought they should have had the opportunity to take all three points, but outside of that incident, they created precious few clear chances and were perhaps fortunate to come away with a goalless draw.
That was perhaps not a result many would have expected given the makeshift nature of the Everton defence. After beating Crystal Palace on Jarrad Branthwaite's return to the team last week, they lost both the centre-back and Vitalii Mykolenko to injury, leaving Tarkowski as the last remaining member of Dyche's first-choice back four, with club captain Seamus Coleman also out.
As it was, Tarkowski was grateful for his team-mates for their contributions to the clean sheet as he struggled throughout, most notably when wrestling Tonali to the ground. Pickford saved his captain on that occasion, while Michael Keane stepped across to make a vital challenge on Joelinton soon afterwards.
More ruthless opposition might have made Tarkowski – who did make an important block late on from Miguel Almiron – and Everton pay. This was a hard-earned clean sheet but hardly a blueprint moving forward, and Dyche will be wanting Tarkowski especially to cut out the silly mistakes when the Toffees return to action at Ipswich Town later this month.
Gordon's nightmare Goodison return
Gordon missed Newcastle's last meeting with Everton at St James' Park through suspension, but he was the centre of attention right from the outset on this occasion.
Even before the penalty, Gordon was jeered by the crowd and targeted by heavy challenges from his former team-mates, yet a number of bright early touches hinted at a promising performance.
The England man's confidence was perhaps rocked by his failure from 12 yards, though, bowing to the huge pressure in that moment, with Ashley Young among those looking to get inside Gordon's head.
He was unselfish either side of half-time in looking to tee up Joelinton and then leaving the ball for Guimaraes, before racing through late on and missing the target altogether.
In the absence of Alexander Isak and Callum Wilson, Gordon could not step up in a striking role this time, with Newcastle ultimately just missing the final touch despite controlling much of the game.
Matters could well look brighter in the striker department for Eddie Howe after the international break – the Newcastle boss will be hoping to have both Isak, who is not going away with Sweden, and Wilson fit and available for the Magpies’ clash with Brighton on 19 October.
Club reports
Everton report | Newcastle report
Match officials
Referee: Craig Pawson. Assistants: Marc Perry, Mark Scholes. Fourth official: Tim Robinson. VAR: Chris Kavanagh. Assistant VAR: Harry Lennard.
