
Morgan Rogers’ superb goal set Aston Villa on their way to a commanding 3-1 home victory over Brentford, ending their eight-match winless streak in all competitions.
Rogers, Ollie Watkins and Matty Cash were all on target in a 13-minute flurry of goals in the first half that proved decisive at Villa Park on Wednesday.
An impressive victory saw Unai Emery’s side end their alarming recent run of form, which had included collecting just two points from their last five Premier League games.
A long-range strike from Rogers midway through the first half broke the deadlock, and Watkins swiftly doubled the lead with a penalty kick he had won himself.
Cash’s thumping volley stretched the advantage further, with Mikkel Damsgaard’s second-half strike only proving to be a consolation for Brentford, who continue to struggle away from home.
The hosts return to the Premier League’s top half in seventh place on 22 points – two more than Thomas Frank’s side, who slip to ninth.
How the match unfolded
Villa took the lead in spectacular fashion in the 21st minute, as Rogers exchanged passes with Watkins before whipping a delicious 20-yard effort into the top corner.
The hosts doubled their advantage seven minutes later when Watkins, who was fouled by Ethan Pinnock, just about beat Mark Flekken from 12 yards, despite the Brentford goalkeeper getting a hand to his spot-kick.
It was three in the 34th minute when Rogers’ cross to the far post evaded Watkins but was volleyed in from a tight angle by Cash.
Flekken denied Lucas Digne and Watkins shortly after the break before Brentford pulled one back in the 54th minute, as Damsgaard fired into the roof of the net from close range.
However, it was Villa who went closest to scoring next. Watkins and substitute Jhon Duran both called Flekken into action in the closing stages, while the returning Tyrone Mings headed just over from a corner.
Nevertheless, the two-goal buffer was enough to get a much-needed win on the board, condemning the Bees to a first defeat in four.
Villa’s drought is over
Heading into this showdown without a win in eight matches across all competitions, Villa’s confidence had taken a knock in recent times.
Emery’s side have been unable to build on their early season momentum, but they received two timely boosts ahead of this game, with Emiliano Martinez fit between the sticks despite sustaining a hairline fracture in his hand that forced him off at half- time against Chelsea on Sunday. Meanwhile, in the heart of defence, Mings made his first Premier League start since August 2023.
At the other end of the pitch, Villa’s dangerous counter-attacks were crucial for two of their goals.
Boubacar Kamara’s neat pirouette in the heart of midfield suddenly turned defence into attack and led to Rogers’ opener.
Then, for the third goal, John McGinn led the charge with a surging run almost half the length of the pitch, before Rogers’ cross was buried by Cash for his first goal of the season.
Those two strikes sandwiched Watkins’ fifth strike in as many matches against his former club. After netting for only the second time in nine games overall, the England forward will hope that acts as a springboard.
Brentford continue to struggle on their travels
Though unbeaten in three matches and on a high after thumping Leicester City last time out, Brentford had only collected one of their 20 points this season away from home.
That is the joint-worst road record in the league along with bottom-of-the-table Southampton, and it was another poor display on their travels here, meaning they have now failed to win in all 10 of their league trips to Villa Park.
It briefly looked like they might be in with a chance of ending that wait when Kevin Schade – Saturday’s hat-trick hero against Leicester – saw his low drive deflect narrowly wide.
However, it proved a false dawn with Villa’s clinical display in front of goal effectively ending the match as a contest after 34 minutes.
Flekken came to their rescue with some smart saves to prevent the defeat from being even heavier, and although they did pull a goal back through Damsgaard’s well-taken effort, a comeback never looked likely.
The Bees struggled to build any momentum off the back of their goal early in the second half, and continued struggles on the road are a cause for concern. Fortunately for Frank, two of their next three league games are on home soil and his side remain well placed in the top half.
Club reports
Villa report | Brentford report
Referee: Lewis Smith. Assistants: Simon Bennett, Dan Robathan. Fourth official: Anthony Taylor. VAR: Nick Hopton. Assistant VAR: John Brooks.
