
Jack Taylor scored a stoppage-time winner as Ipswich Town secured a vital 2-1 victory over fellow relegation battlers Wolverhampton Wanderers at Molineux.
Both teams entered the match off the back of three successive defeats, with Wolves – and their head coach Gary O'Neil – under pressure at Molineux.
A Matt Doherty own goal handed the Tractor Boys a first-half lead, only for Matheus Cunha to tee up a grandstand finish with his 72nd-minute leveller.
However, it was Ipswich who took all three points, with Wolves' set-piece failings haunting them once again as Taylor nodded Jack Clarke's last-gasp corner home in the fourth minute of added time.
The result moves 18th-placed Ipswich one point off Crystal Palace in 17th, while Wolves remain 19th, four points adrift of safety.
How the match unfolded
After a nervy start from both sides, Ipswich took the lead from their first real venture forward in the 15th minute.
Liam Delap showed great endeavour and strength to latch on to a long ball and fend off Nelson Semedo to cross for Omari Hutchinson. His shot was blocked on the line by Doherty, but Conor Chaplin’s strike hit Toti Gomes before bouncing in off Doherty.
Wolves had two glorious chances to equalise before half-time. But, Jean-Ricner Bellegarde blasted over after being teed up beautifully by Mario Lemina, while Arijanet Muric held on to a tame finish from Jorgen Strand Larsen. 
Sam Johnstone was required to keep out Wes Burns' stinging shot early in the second half, then Delap failed to connect with Burns' cross with the goal gaping.
Wolves made those let-offs count when Cunha thrashed an effort past Muric at his near post. The Brazilian later ballooned over the crossbar when presented with a chance to win it for the hosts.
Instead, the visitors snatched all three points, Taylor nodding Clarke's deep set-piece delivery into the bottom-right corner to send the travelling fans into raptures.
Crisis point at Molineux?
It has been an eventful few days at Wolves, and this latest defeat will only deepen the mood around the club.
On Friday, O'Neil confirmed Lemina had relinquished the captaincy after his reaction to Monday's 2-1 defeat at West Ham – the midfielder had tangled with Jarrod Bowen at the final whistle and had to be restrained by team-mates before clashing with first-team coach Shaun Derry.
Despite that loss Wolves chairman Jeff Shi insisted O'Neil retained the club's backing ahead of Saturday's game.
The frustration around Molineux was evident from the moment Chaplin's rebounded effort rolled in off Doherty, and but for some wasteful finishing from Delap, Ipswich could have been out of sight early in the second half.
As has been the case so often this season, a moment of brilliance from Cunha rescued Wolves, but they failed to make the most of a dominant spell after drawing level and were hit with a late sucker punch. Things were made worse by a second yellow card shown to Rayan Ait-Nouri for an incident after the final whistle. 
Wolves have now conceded 16 goals from set-piece situations this season. Fellow strugglers Leicester City are up next for Wolves.
McKenna’s men show their fight
Ipswich had also endured a difficult few days ahead of their trip to the West Midlands, going down to Crystal Palace and AFC Bournemouth in back-to-back games at Portman Road.
They were facing the prospect of suffering four straight league defeats for the very first time under Kieran McKenna, but showed real fight and determination to snatch three vital points on Saturday.
Ipswich showed their quality in attack in the early stages, with Delap chasing what appeared to be a lost cause in the build-up to their opening goal, which admittedly had more than a hint of fortune about it.
One major problem for the Tractor Boys this season has been squandering leads, having already dropped 15 points from winning positions ahead of Saturday's match, the most in the Premier League.
However, they did not let their heads drop at 1-1 and were rewarded with a memorable winner from Taylor. They will now look to build on this result against Newcastle United next week, as they go in search of their first home victory of the campaign.
