
Jhon Duran scored the only goal as Aston Villa edged out the Premier League's bottom side Southampton 1-0 on Saturday.
The Colombian’s first-half strike was enough to seal a hard-fought win for Unai Emery’s side, who climbed to fifth in the table after back-to-back victories at Villa Park.
Villa, who ended an eight-match winless streak across all competitions with victory over Brentford on Wednesday, broke through in the 24th minute through a wonderful individual goal by Duran.
Southampton could not respond as their winless streak on the road in the top flight stretched to 15 matches.
With Brighton and Hove Albion and Fulham not playing until Sunday, Villa leapfrog both clubs to sixth place on 25 points. Their opponents remain four points adrift at the bottom, on five.
How the match unfolded
Both defences were on guard early on. Diego Carlos and Ezri Konsa thwarted Ryan Manning and Cameron Archer, while the returning Taylor Harwood-Bellis deflected Morgan Rogers' effort behind at the other end.
Southampton were given a scare when Joe Lumley's loose pass was intercepted, but the goalkeeper atoned for his error by blocking Duran's effort.
However, Villa's number nine was not to be denied in the 24th minute, stealing possession from Harwood-Bellis and bursting away from Nathan Wood before bending the ball into the net.
While Southampton failed to register a single shot on target in the entire game, the hosts went close to doubling their lead late on.
Wood was in the right place for the visitors on both occasions, blocking Ross Barkley’s goalbound effort from an Ollie Watkins cutback, while also getting in the way of the latter’s stoppage-time attempt.
Lumley denied John McGinn from the final Villa attack, but one goal was enough for the hosts as Southampton's struggles continued.
Back-to-back for Villa
Emery and Villa will have breathed a huge sigh of relief after finally ending their winless streak against Brentford in midweek.
Their focus then turned to extending their unbeaten run on home soil, which stretched back five games.
Emery included Duran from the start for the first time in the Premier League this season, with Watkins dropping to the bench despite his goal against the Bees.
It was an inspired decision by the Villa boss. Having repeatedly shone as a substitute earlier in the campaign, Duran showed his capabilities when starting by taking his goal superbly.
Villa did have opportunities to put the contest well and truly beyond Southampton later on, and their lack of a clinical edge is something Emery will be eager to address.
However, his side never really looked likely to surrender their advantage and, now they are back to within two points of the top four, he will hope that normal service has been resumed.
Saints’ away struggles continue
Having lost 11 of their last 14 Premier League away games – and registered just a single point on the road this season – Southampton would not have been brimming with confidence ahead of the trip to Villa Park.
However, the Saints did look threatening during the first half, and it took well-timed interventions to deny them clear sights on goal.
But they were undone at the other end, moments after Duran’s initial opportunity signalled a warning, with the Colombian ruthlessly punishing some sloppy defensive play.
Russell Martin made an attacking change at the break, swapping full-back James Bree for midfielder Joe Aribo.
However, the visitors could not register a shot on target, with their most dangerous moment seeing Emiliano Martinez hold onto teenager Sam Amo-Ameyaw’s deep cross from the right.
Enduring a difficult spell and desperately needing a win, things do not get any easier for Southampton. Next weekend, they will welcome Tottenham Hotspur to St Mary’s, before they face high-flying Liverpool in the EFL Cup quarter-finals.
