
Premier League debutant Matt O’Riley proved Brighton & Hove Albion’s hero as he completed a turnaround in a 2-1 win over Manchester City at the Amex Stadium.
The substitute returned from injury with a bang as he condemned Pep Guardiola to a fourth successive defeat in all competitions for the first time in his managerial career.
Erling Haaland had given City a deserved lead in the first half, but they were pegged back by another substitute in Joao Pedro in the 78th minute.
O’Riley then piled the misery on their visitors with a composed finish five minutes later, ensuring Fabian Hurzeler’s side – who were on the wrong end of a turnaround against Liverpool last time out – came out on top.
It is a win that lifts Brighton to fourth in the table, while second-place City missed the chance to go top and sit two points behind Liverpool, who play Aston Villa later on Saturday.
How the match unfolded
City started the game with purpose, with Savinho forcing a smart save out of Bart Verbruggen from a tight angle on the right before Haaland ballooned a volley well wide on the stretch.
But the Norwegian soon got his name back on the scoresheet, following in after his first shot was smothered by the goalkeeper to poke it over the line before Jan Paul van Hecke could clear.
Haaland could have bagged a second moments later, only for Verbruggen to turn his tight effort against the post, while Danny Welbeck sent a free-kick narrowly wide at the other end just before the break.
Brighton upped the pressure in the second half and Joao Pedro looked to have wasted the best chance as he dragged wide from a one-on-one. But he did not miss his second chance, profiting from a scramble to fire in the equaliser.
O’Riley sent the Amex into raptures shortly after as he breached the backline to poke the winner past Ederson.
Hurzeler’s substitutions have Brighton soaring
One could say that this was the worst time for Brighton to face Manchester City, with the visitors always likely to be determined to end their recent losing run.
But the Seagulls had a point to prove, too. Hurzeler’s impressive start to life in the Premier League had stalled in recent weeks as his side gave up leads to drop points against Wolverhampton Wanderers and Liverpool in their last two league games. He would have also been keen to turn things around.
They were sloppy in the first half, with their usual possession-based game causing more problems for themselves, and City benefited from a loose pass in midfield to take the lead.
But nothing can be taken away from Brighton’s second-half performance as they used width to their advantage, peppering crosses into the box while piling bodies forward to force mistakes high up the field.
With City’s defence struggling to cope, the freshness of Joao Pedro and O’Riley helped take full advantage.
They still had to dig deep in the final moments with City pushing for an equaliser, but their defence was resolute as they recorded a famous victory at the Amex Stadium.
City’s struggles continue
Guardiola has remained resolute over the last 10 days, insisting before this match that City were not in a “dark place” like Bernardo Silva had suggested after their 4-1 defeat to Sporting CP in the Champions League.
Never before had the Spaniard lost four games in a row in his managerial career and, though he may point to City’s injury troubles as part of the reason, it came down to the difference between the first and second halves here.
Haaland’s 12th Premier League goal of the season looked to be setting them on their way to a much-needed three points as they continuously caused Brighton problems before the break.
Brighton, however, turned the tide with more space opening up and Guardiola’s side looked uncharacteristically disorganised as they failed to clear their lines from the equaliser.
With big games against Tottenham Hotspur and Liverpool up next for them in the Premier League after the international break, Guardiola will be hoping they can change their luck sooner rather than later.
Club reports
Brighton report | Man City report
Match officials
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Lee Betts, Steve Meredith. Fourth official: Andy Davies. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Stuart Burt.
