
The Gunners thought they had taken the lead when Jurrien Timber turned home early on, but the goal was ruled out for offside, a decision which was then confirmed by VAR, with Mikel Merino ahead of play.
But Arsenal did go ahead in the 15th minute when Martin Odegaard’s neat flick was gathered by Saka, who drove across the box before rifling the ball into the right-hand corner.
Matz Sels was called into action twice in quick succession to close out the half, first producing a strong save to deny Leandro Trossard before diving low to tip Saka’s curled effort behind.
Arsenal’s sustained pressure told seven minutes after half-time. Saka was involved again, picking out Partey on the edge of the area. He took a touch before sending a curled effort into the far corner.
The icing on the cake came form 17-year-old substitute Nwaneri, who produced an assured finish at the near post to become Arsenal’s second-youngest scorer in the Premier League.
Gunners back in business
Many may have been surprised to see both Declan Rice and Kai Havertz start the match on the bench, though Arteta’s risk with his team selection on his milestone game ultimately paid off.
Arsenal opted to play the ball long into Havertz in recent weeks, but with Gabriel Jesus leading a fluid front line, the Gunners were back to the slick passing football the Premier League has become accustomed to during Arteta’s tenure.
Arsenal’s right-hand side proved to be a particular avenue of focus, with a combination of Odegaard, Timber and Jesus almost combining for a wonderful second with a swift passage of play shortly after Saka had thumped the hosts in front.
Arsenal were able to control proceedings following Partey’s sensational strike, but were also able to showcase the plethora of attacking options from the bench, none more so than Nwaneri, whose first involvement saw him brilliantly skip beyond Murillo before sending a strike narrowly wide.
Nwaneri would get himself on the scoresheet, however, and his dazzling cameo will have Arteta pondering about his involvement from the start in the coming weeks, with the hectic festive period fast approaching.
Forest falter
Ahead of kick-off, Nuno Espirito Santo believed that Forest could compete with Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium after their flying start to the campaign, but his side were comfortably second-best on a difficult afternoon in north London.
Ola Aina’s pass found Callum Hudson-Odoi early on, but the latter scuffed his lines from the edge of the box. And without in-form Chris Wood at the centre of Forest’s attack, Gabriel and William Saliba were rarely troubled by Taiwo Awoniyi.
Though the visitors were able to momentarily withstand Arsenal’s onslaught midway through the opening period, their possession failed to amount any opportunities of note, with Forest entering the break without testing David Raya.
Matters were made worse when Anthony Elanga was forced to withdraw at the interval after falling awkwardly in the first half, though his replacement, Jota Silva, almost reduced the deficit in the 71st minute with a strike that deflected wide off of fellow substitute Wood, before the winger had a goal disallowed in stoppage time.
Forest’s unbeaten away record this term came to a tepid end, though will be relying on home comforts in order to return to winning ways when they return to the City Ground to face Ipswich Town next Saturday.
Club reports
Arsenal report | Forest report
Match officials
Referee: Simon Hooper. Assistants: Adrian Holmes, Simon Long. Fourth official: Dean Whitestone. VAR: Darren England. Assistant VAR: Marc Perry.
