
Two goals from Yoane Wissa helped Brentford claim another thrilling win as they twice came from behind to defeat AFC Bournemouth 3-2 at the Gtech Community Stadium.
It was another high-scoring Premier League affair for Thomas Frank’s side at home, though they had to work hard for the three points after Evanilson profited from a mistake to open the scoring for the visitors early in the first half.
Wissa equalised with a header before the break, and when Justin Kluivert restored Bournemouth's lead in the second half, Mikkel Damsgaard got the Bees back on level terms again, just one minute and 20 seconds later.
Wissa delivered the winner nine minutes later with a lovely dink to get the Bees back to winning ways after their heartbreaking late defeat to Fulham on Monday.
Brentford leapfrog their opponents into 10th on 16 points, with Andoni Iraola’s side one point and a place behind.
How the match unfolded
An unmarked Marcos Senesi scooped an early big chance over the bar from close range for Bournemouth, but his blushes were spared moments later as Evanilson latched on to a slack backpass from Sepp van den Berg to slot in the opener.
Ten minutes later, the hosts were back on level terms as Wissa nodded back across goal into the far-bottom corner after a throw-in was flicked on.
Kluivert put Bournemouth ahead once more just after the start of the second half with a lovely move from a corner, playing a one-two with Lewis Cook to work the space to fire home.
Their lead lasted just 80 seconds, as Bryan Mbeumo slotted in Damsgaard, who squeezed the ball in from a tight angle on the right.
Brentford took the lead for the first time in the 58th minute as Wissa latched on to Vitaly Janelt’s curling pass and delightfully lifted it over Kepa.
Bournemouth were millimetres from an equaliser in the final minute as Enes Unal’s header hit the crossbar, but they could not claw their way back.
Goals galore for Brentford
The hosts have failed to keep a clean sheet this season, but they guarantee entertainment, having scored 12 goals in their last three home matches.
Bournemouth’s first came down to some Brentford sloppiness. Van den Berg paid no attention to the pressure of Evanilson as he curled a slow and short back pass towards his goalkeeper and saw the prolific Bournemouth striker nick possession and finish with flair.
Brentford, of course, had a response up their sleeve as a spritely Wissa was in position to benefit from the chaos caused by an old-fashioned long throw into the box.
But for all of their great play in the final third, the Bees were left lacking at the back for Bournemouth’s second goal as well, as the visitors capitalised on Mbeumo’s lax marking during a brilliantly worked corner.
The hosts know the importance of not giving up after their recent encounter with Fulham and made sure that was not the case today as they used another kick-off to quickly draw back on level terms.
And they managed to hold onto their lead in this match, getting a stroke of luck as Unal’s late chance for an equaliser rattled the woodwork.
Evanilson a bright spark in defeat
The Cherries saw a brilliant run, including victories over Manchester City and Arsenal, come to an end in west London, but for their star striker, the form continued.
Evanilson contributed his third goal in the same number of games as he proved a vital part of Bournemouth’s brilliant start at the Gtech Community Stadium.
While it was Van den Berg’s error that set him up, the Brazilian forward made sure his goal was easy on the eye as well as functional.
In behind the Brentford defence, he drove to the right of Flekken before dragging the ball back to his left to sit the Dutch goalkeeper down. It was with a cool swagger that Evanilson then rolled the ball into the net to open the scoring in the match.
While proceedings began to go against his team in the second half, he maintained his threat.
He had a shout for a penalty on the hour mark as he raced for a ball in the box, though nothing was given.
Evanilson might not have been decisive on this occasion, but Iraola will be pleased to see his form continue as Bournemouth look to bounce back next time out against Brighton & Hove Albion.
Club reports
Brentford report | Bournemouth report
Match officials
Referee: Darren Bond. Assistants: Darren Cann, Mark Scholes. Fourth official: Oliver Langford. VAR: Andy Madley. Assistant VAR: Derek Eaton.
