
Nottingham Forest ended Brentford's unbeaten Premier League home record this season with a superb 2-0 win at the Gtech Community Stadium.
Of their 23 points this season, 22 have come at home for Brentford, but goals either side of the break from Ola Aina and Anthony Elanga ended their impressive streak, as Forest picked up a fifth league win on the road in 2024/25.
Aina's strike seven minutes before the break was a reward for Forest's patience following a bright Brentford start, while it was a defensive error that handed Elanga an early Christmas gift shortly after the interval.
Keane Lewis-Potter's mistake was seized upon by the former Manchester United winger, and Brentford never looked likely to mount a comeback from there.
Nuno Espirito Santo’s team remain in fourth place, three points above Aston Villa, while Brentford sit 12th.
How the match unfolded
The hosts flew out of the blocks as Mikkel Damsgaard forced a diving stop from Matz Sels after just four minutes before Yoane Wissa prodded over the bar following a defensive mix-up for Forest.
Having failed to capitalise on those chances, Brentford needed goalkeeper Mark Flekken to be on top form to keep out Chris Wood’s stooping header, though he could do little to prevent Forest taking the lead in the 38th minute.
Neco Williams stormed down the left flank and sent a cut back over to the far side, with Aina on hand to expertly steer it home.
It was 2-0 six minutes after the restart. Elanga pounced on Lewis-Potter’s loose touch from a long ball, before cutting inside and planting a left-footed finish into the bottom-left corner.
Sels denied Kristoffer Ajer from close range just after the hour, but despite a flurry of changes from Thomas Frank, Brentford failed to test Forest’s resolve.
Forest’s winter wonderland
Forest fans heading back to Nottingham will be feeling the festive cheer thanks to another smart tactical tweak from Nuno on the road.
The Portuguese boss has made a habit of tinkering with his team for away games and his latest change worked to superb effect.
Aina and Williams were deployed as more conventional full backs in the 3-2 win at Manchester United earlier this month, but with Morato added to the defence this time, the pair were allowed to stay higher up the pitch in a 3-4-3 system.
Williams teed up Aina for the opener and the latter's fine performance helped Elanga to offer another potent threat.
With Aina offering the consistent width needed down Forest's right-hand side, Elanga was able to operate slightly infield – as Callum Hudson-Odoi did in tandem with Williams on the opposite flank – and the winger showed great determination, pace and skill to make the most of Keane-Potter’s error.
It is turning into a season to remember for Forest, who are guaranteed to go into Christmas in the top four.
Brentford's bubble burst
Injuries in defence have forced Frank's hand in recent weeks, as the Bees have survived due to the grit and experience still available in his back line, but this game proved to be a bridge too far.
A starting back four featured more changes from last weekend's defeat at Chelsea with Ben Mee partnering Nathan Collins centrally and Lewis-Potter and Ajer deployed at left and right-back respectively.
Both full-backs were targeted in the build-up to Forest's goals, as Williams' dart in behind caught out Ajer, and Lewis-Potter’s mistake was punished by Elanga.
Two players covering in slightly unfamiliar positions always brings risk, and they produced positive moments in attack, but a lack of confidence in a fresh role was thrust under the spotlight by a Forest side drilled to perfection.
Brentford’s unbeaten home record has now been dashed, and Frank will hope to put this down as a bad day at the office ahead of festive fixtures against Brighton and Arsenal.
Club reports
Brentford report
Match officials
Referee: Michael Oliver. Assistants: Stuart Burt, James Mainwaring. Fourth official: Andy Davies. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Dan Cook.
