
Goals from two corner routines handed Ruben Amorim his first Premier League defeat as Manchester United were beaten 2-0 by Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium on Wednesday.
After being frustrated in the first half by United, the hosts found the breakthrough when Jurrien Timber glanced Declan Rice’s corner beyond Andre Onana in the 54th minute.
Arsenal doubled their lead in similar fashion, this time from the opposite side when Bukayo Saka’s back-post delivery was headed back across by Thomas Partey, with William Saliba providing the finishing touch.
Kai Havertz almost put the hosts further in front but was thwarted by Onana, with substitute Mikel Merino nearly scoring from another corner moments later.
Despite victory, Arsenal drop to third after Chelsea’s 5-1 thrashing of Southampton, but they close the gap to leaders Liverpool to seven points, while United are 11th.
How the match unfolded
Arsenal had the ball in the net inside the first five minutes when Gabriel Martinelli tucked home from Havertz’s cushioned pass, but the offside flag was raised with German ahead of play.
Despite being without the injured Gabriel Magalhaes, the Gunners almost went ahead through a corner routine, with Saka’s delivery headed narrowly wide by Partey.
However, the hosts did get themselves in front with a well-worked set-piece in the second half, with Timber brilliantly flicking Rice’s corner in at the front post for his first Arsenal goal.
They continued to threaten from corners and almost went two up when another in-swinging delivery from Rice was headed off the line by a combination of Joshua Zirkzee and Manuel Ugarte.
But the Gunners sealed the win in the 73rd minute through another corner, with Saliba guiding the ball over the line after being found by Partey’s header across goal.
Arsenal set-pieces do the business
Many teams have weapons, and Arsenal showcased that set-pieces are one of theirs as they overcame a tepid first-half display to win comfortably.
The Gunners were unable to create any clear-cut chances in the opening exchanges, failing to register a shot on target in the first 45 minutes, but started after the interval on the front foot.
Partey’s chipped pass picked out Timber, who pulled the ball back for Martin Odegaard. Rice, however, could not find the finishing touch, but he proved his effectiveness on set-piece duties when he picked out Timber for the opening goal.
Arsenal dominated proceedings after that, though were handed some nervy moments at the other end by their opponents. They managed to find a two-goal cushion through Saliba, and perhaps should have scored more.
Havertz saw his near-post effort brilliantly blocked by Onana before Merino headed narrowly wide later on. It is a London derby next for the Gunners against Fulham at Craven Cottage, with Marco Silva the next manager tasked with stopping Arsenal’s impressive set-pieces.
Plenty to ponder for Amorim
Amorim made six changes to his starting line-up from their victory over Everton as he continues to figure out his best side during his early tenure. He would have been happy with those alterations in the first half.
While not offering much in the way of threat in the forward areas, with Rasmus Hojlund an isolated figure at the top of their attack, United frustrated their opponents for large parts of the opening 45 minutes. They could have even gone ahead when Jakub Kiwior’s poor clearance fell to Diogo Dalot, who fired narrowly wide.
But United’s undoing came from set-pieces, with Timber’s opener slowing their progress. They could have levelled through a routine of their own when Matthijs de Ligt’s header was brilliantly tipped over the crossbar by David Raya from a Bruno Fernandes’ free-kick.
Saliba’s second left an air of inevitability about the result, with United again unable to defend a corner. There was the positive of Leny Yoro’s first Premier League appearance, but the French defender was unable to stop Arsenal’s dead-ball dominance.
Amorim will be hoping to return to winning ways at home to Nottingham Forest on Saturday.
Club reports
Arsenal report | Man Utd report
Match officials
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Lee Betts, Ian Hussin. Fourth official: Rob Jones. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Adam Nunn.
