
Jarrod Bowen scored a stoppage-time winner from the penalty spot as West Ham United recorded a 2-1 victory over Manchester United, piling more pressure on Erik ten Hag.
Casemiro had cancelled out Crysencio Summerville’s opener as the game burst into life late on, but Bowen's penalty in the second minute of second-half stoppage time - awarded for Matthijs de Ligt's foul on substitute Danny Ings - settled the contest.
Summerville tapped home in the 74th minute to punish United's wastefulness, but Casemiro nodded the equaliser from close range seven minutes later.
Alejandro Garnacho had rattled the crossbar as early as the second minute, while Diogo Dalot somehow blazed over when presented with an open goal half an hour later.
However, there was late drama as Bowen won it in the second of 12 added minutes in the second half, scoring from the spot after De Ligt had fouled Ings. Referee David Coote did not initially award a penalty but VAR deemed there was sufficient contact on Ings’ lower leg and recommended an on-field review, with Coote overturning his original decision and awarding a penalty.
Bowen’s cool penalty finish handed Julen Lopetegui's hosts a much-needed victory as West Ham leapfrog their opponents into 13th spot with 11 points, the same tally as the 14th-placed Red Devils.
How the match unfolded
Man Utd almost made a dream start as Garnacho hit the woodwork with a curling effort early on, before Rasmus Hojlund forced a save from Lukasz Fabianski and an unmarked Bruno Fernandes headed over.
But their biggest chance came after 32 minutes when Fernandes’ brilliant pass over the top found Dalot, who took the ball past Fabianski but fired over with the goal gaping. 
United were denied by the woodwork again on 40 minutes when Christian Eriksen’s corner was glanced onto the bar by Hammers midfielder Edson Alvarez, but it was West Ham who made the breakthrough in the second half.
Substitute Ings miscued his shot from a Bowen cross, but Summerville arrived at the far post to tap the loose ball home.
Their lead only lasted seven minutes as Casemiro headed home from almost on the goal line, but there was to be one final twist with Bowen stepping up to fire the match-winning penalty past goalkeeper Andre Onana.
Pressure piled on Ten Hag
The spotlight was already firmly on Ten Hag ahead of Sunday's match, as United’s rocky start left fans wondering if their season was slipping away.
Heading into this match, their 11 points marked the second-lowest haul by the Red Devils eight matches into a Premier League campaign, only faring worse under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in 2019/20.
After an uninspiring draw against Jose Mourinho’s Fenerbahce in the UEFA Europa League on Thursday, their latest defeat at the London Stadium will do little to quell the rising doubts. 
United were by far the better team in the first half but passed up several gilt-edged chances, and unlike against Brentford last time out, they did not sharpen up after Ten Hag's half-time team talk, dropping deeper and inviting West Ham to fire crosses into their area.
With Chelsea visiting Old Trafford next Sunday, things are not going to get any easier for Ten Hag and his players, with the noise surrounding United's boss only growing louder.
Lopetegui gets a reprieve
While the problems continue to mount for Ten Hag and Man Utd, Lopetegui will feel some pressure lifting after a rare win at home, where West Ham had only previously triumphed once in four matches this season.
The Spaniard made four changes to the side that lost 4-1 at Tottenham Hotspur last week as Alvarez, Fabianski, Carlos Soler and Konstantinos Mavropano all came in. 
But without the suspended Mohammed Kudus, West Ham offered little going forward in the early stages, with a wayward Lucas Paqueta header in the 28th minute their only chance of note in the opening period. 
Their display in the second half, however, was a much-improved one as they took the game to Man Utd, dusting themselves down even after the visitors levelled with little time left on the clock. 
Lopetegui will hope to see more of the same from his players at Nottingham Forest next week, as the Hammers look to build some momentum after a poor start.
Club reports
West Ham report | Man Utd report
Match officials
Referee: David Coote. Assistants: Dan Robathan, Craig Taylor. Fourth official: Tom Bramall. VAR: Michael Oliver. Assistant VAR: Stuart Burt.
