
Jordan Ayew’s stoppage-time equaliser snatched a point for Leicester City, who held 10-man Ipswich Town to a 1-1 draw at Portman Road.
The hosts looked on course to record their first win of the season following a superb Leif Davis volley after 55 minutes.
However, they were forced to finish the final 13 minutes a man light after Kalvin Phillips’ dismissal for a second bookable offence.
Leicester capitalised on the advantage, with substitute Ayew slotting home in the 94th minute to secure a share of the points.
Ipswich missed the chance to move out of the relegation zone and remain in 18th place on five points, five fewer than Leicester in 15th.
How the match unfolded
Leicester carried the greater threat early on with Abdul Fatawu and Facundo Buonanotte both calling Arijanet Muric into action, while Conor Chaplin and Ben Johnson went close from distance at the other end as Ipswich grew into the contest.
The hosts broke through 10 minutes after the restart with Sam Morsy’s crossfield ball brilliantly converted by Davis from a tight angle.
With manager Steve Cooper watching from the stands while he served a one-game touchline ban, Leicester sought a response and Harry Winks’ curling long-range effort drew a smart reflex save from Muric.
Ipswich were forced to increase their concentration levels when Phillips was shown his second yellow card for a late challenge on Ricardo Pereira.
The hosts survived two huge scares as the clock ticked down. Buonanotte fired over from a Victor Kristiansen cross, while Cameron Burgess blocked substitute Ayew’s goalbound strike on the line.
However, they could not hold on as Ayew brilliantly converted a neat one-two with Jamie Vardy to salvage a point for the visitors.
Ipswich’s wait goes on
It looked like Ipswich could finally end their 22-and-a-half year wait for that elusive Premier League victory.
Davis seemed set to be the hero at Portman Road, as the full-back marked his 100th appearance for the club with a brilliantly controlled volley to break the deadlock.
However, Kieran McKenna would not have been taking anything for granted. His side had already dropped 10 points from winning positions this season, including losing a two-goal at Brentford last time out.
They faced an uphill battle when Phillips was given his marching orders for a second late challenge of the match.
Buoyed by the home crowd, Ipswich desperately held on with Burgess doing magnificently to thwart Ayew on the line.
But it was not to be, with Ayew snatching a point for the visitors. The wait for victory goes on and with Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United awaiting them in their next two games, confidence will not exactly be brimming for the Tractor Boys.
Another Leicester late show
Leicester were eager to make it third time lucky having suffered back-to-back losses in all competitions.
But a third straight defeat loomed for Cooper, who was watching from the stand with assistant Alan Tate keeping his seat warm in the dugout. While they trailed, Leicester would not have been panicking.
After all, the Foxes had recovered from 2-0 down to snatch all three points at Southampton in their last Premier League game on the road, with Ayew scoring a 98th-minute winner.
A fortnight on, and he was at it again. Ayew had already sounded a warning when, within moments of his introduction, he neatly lifted over Muric, only to be denied by Burgess.
However, there was no stopping him a few minutes later. Gliding into the box, he played a delightful one-two with Vardy before slotting home to silence Portman Road.
With their next two matches against Man Utd and Chelsea, it was important for the Foxes to East Anglia with something.
Club reports 
Ipswich report | Leicester report
Match officials
Referee: Tim Robinson. Assistants: Tim Wood, Steve Meredith. Fourth official: John Busby. VAR: Stuart Attwell. Assistant VAR: James Mainwaring.
