
Liverpool went eight points clear at the top of the Premier League as they came from behind to seal a thrilling 3-2 victory over Southampton at St Mary's, thanks to two second-half goals from Mohamed Salah.
Salah turned Sunday's match on its head after Mateus Fernandes had given bottom club Southampton a surprise 2-1 lead on 56 minutes.
Fernandes swept home on the counter after being teed up by Adam Armstrong, who had equalised for Southampton late in the first half following Dominik Szoboszlai’s opener.
However, Salah made it 2-2 not long after the hour then kept his nerve from the penalty spot on 83 minutes, as a handball from substitute Yukinari Sugawara proved costly for Southampton.
They remain bottom of the table, five points adrift of 17th-placed Wolverhampton Wanderers. Liverpool, meanwhile, are clear at the top ahead of next week’s huge meeting with Manchester City, who were beaten 4-0 by Tottenham Hotspur on Saturday.
How the match unfolded
It was a familiar story for Southampton as they played themselves into trouble on the half-hour mark. Fernandes received the ball under pressure from Alex McCarthy’s throw and Flynn Downes' clearance landed straight at the feet of Szoboszlai, who curled home via the left post.
Downes was denied by Caoimhin Kelleher three minutes later, but Southampton were handed a golden chance to level when Andrew Robertson tripped Tyler Dibling on the 18-yard line in full flow, with the penalty awarded by referee Sam Barrott and confirmed after a VAR review.
Kelleher saved Armstrong's penalty, but the striker tucked home the rebound to send Southampton into half-time level and he played a key role in the hosts taking the lead after the restart.
Dibling's crossfield pass released Armstrong, who turned and teed up Fernandes for a neat finish into the bottom-left corner.
Their lead, however, lasted just nine minutes as Salah brilliantly cushioned Ryan Gravenberch's pass beyond the stranded McCarthy.
Liverpool then laid siege to the Southampton area and when Sugawara handled Salah's inswinging cross, the Egyptian made no mistake, scoring the winner from the penalty spot.
Salah saves lacklustre Liverpool
Arne Slot would be the first to admit his Liverpool side were far from their controlled best on the south coast. The Reds entered Sunday's match with just six goals conceded in the Premier League this campaign.
However, uncharacteristic mistakes were present in their play right from the off. Southampton wanted an early penalty when Armstrong tumbled under pressure from Ibrahima Konate, only for replays to show any contact may have been just outside the area.
Centre-back partner Virgil van Dijk – usually a model of consistency – then conceded possession with an unnecessary flick seconds before Dibling did win a spot-kick for Southampton.
Fortunately for Liverpool, they possess the type of star quality that allows them to grind out results when not at their best.
While McCarthy's positioning was questionable, Salah showed excellent awareness to let a dropping ball run off the outside of his boot and into an unguarded net for Liverpool’s equaliser.
It was Salah's own cross that led to the penalty he converted so emphatically to put Liverpool back in front, and he could have had a hat-trick when he smashed Luis Diaz's deflected cross against the post late on.
Salah is now on 10 league goals, two behind league top scorer Erling Haaland, in what could be his final campaign at Anfield, and his form has certainly put the Reds well on course for a title tilt.
Martin does not let up on risk-v-reward approach
Russell Martin's approach at Southampton is all about taking risks and hopefully earning big rewards. While his team have been easy on the eye all campaign, plenty of onlookers have suggested their commitment to playing out from the back amounts to naivety.
Boos rang around St Mary's after Szoboszlai took advantage of a host of errors in the home defence for Liverpool’s opener.
McCarthy's throw to a well-marked Fernandes and Downes' decision to attempt to clear down the centre of the pitch rather than kick it out for a throw, were ill-advised to say the least.
But in the second half, another quick throw out from McCarthy – standing in for the injured Aaron Ramsdale – started the move that led to Fernandes’ goal, with the outstanding Dibling showing great awareness to find Armstrong charging in behind.
However, on a day of ups and downs, McCarthy may have to take a share of the blame for Liverpool's leveller, as Salah deftly touched Gravenberch's floated pass beyond him.
Martin would surely have been content to take a point, yet another mistake cost his team as Sugawara flicked out his right arm to concede a late spot-kick.
There was plenty to admire about Southampton's performance, but with Brighton & Hove Albion, Chelsea, Aston Villa, Spurs and Fulham to play in a daunting run of pre-Christmas fixtures, the Premier League's bottom club must cut out the errors.
Club reports
Southampton report | Liverpool report
What managers said
Russel Martin: "We were really competitive as we have been against a lot of top sides this season but we didn't come away with anything because we conceded some really bad goals. I think we should have a penalty at 2-1 up as well.
"It's not good from us. It doesn't encapsulate our season. Liverpool have a lot of players around the ball so I have to take responsibility for that. Sometimes the detail is wrong but the players stuck at it and they were so brave. If they carry on doing that then they'll be alright."
Arne Slot: "It was not at surprise that Southampton made it difficult as we have sene how they have played against top teams. We dominated the game, but because they went 2-1 up they made it really difficult for us.
"The stadium was up for the whole game and helped the home side, as I have seen across England. It was good for us that Mo [Salah] got the equaliser as it was not our best period. After that we dominated, they got injuries and got tired, so we hoped it would eventually be 3-2."
Match officials
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Lee Betts, Wade Smith. Fourth official: Darren England. VAR: Michael Oliver. Assistant VAR: Mat Wilkes.
