
West Ham United beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-1 at the London Stadium to ease the pressure on head coach Julen Lopetegui.
Monday's match was billed as a vital one for both clubs, with Lopetegui and his counterpart Gary O'Neil seeing their positions called into question after damaging defeats last week.
Wolves wing-back Matt Doherty struck a rare goal to cancel out Tomas Soucek's looping header with 21 minutes remaining, as things livened up after a tepid first half.
But West Ham, who also saw a Mohammed Kudus strike overturned following a VAR review at 1-0 up, restored their lead through Jarrod Bowen's cultured finish only two minutes and 17 seconds later.
Wolves were unable to find a second leveller as they fell to a third successive loss, a result that leaves them 19th in the Premier League table and four points from fourth-bottom Crystal Palace. West Ham remain 14th, but with their cushion to the bottom three increased to nine points.
How the match unfolded
Neither side was able to find the breakthrough in the opening period, with Joao Gomes steering wide when presented with a glaring chance in between Bowen and Kudus working goalkeeper Sam Johnstone.
But West Ham hit the front nine minutes into the second half, with Soucek left unmarked at the back post as he headed Bowen's corner over Johnstone and the covering Gomes on the line.
Kudus was found to be marginally offside following a VAR review when turning in Bowen's cross for what West Ham thought was a second, and Wolves made the most of that reprieve as Doherty sent a low volley past Lukasz Fabianski from 12 yards.
West Ham's response was rapid, though, as Bowen turned Goncalo Guedes with ease and curled the ball into the bottom-left corner for what proved to be the winner.
Perfect tribute to Antonio
West Ham were rocked on Saturday by the news that the club's all-time record Premier League goalscorer Michail Antonio was involved in a road traffic accident, after which he underwent surgery on a lower limb fracture.
The home players wore t-shirts with Antonio's name and No 9 displayed upon them as they warmed up for Monday's match and supporters paid their own tribute with a stadium-wide round of applause in the ninth minute.
Bowen then celebrated what proved to be the winning goal by holding Antonio's shirt up high at pitchside.
This was another captain's performance from Bowen, who assisted Soucek's opener and brilliantly found the net to earn his side – and head coach Lopetegui – a much-needed win.
With AFC Bournemouth and Brighton & Hove Albion up next before Christmas, the Hammers will now hope to finally build some positive momentum under the Spaniard.
O'Neil under pressure
Widespread media reports had suggested prior to this contest that the position of the losing coach could be under further pressure.
This was a third defeat in a row for Wolves, who have been dragged back into the mire after appearing to steady the ship with a four-match unbeaten run that earned O'Neil a nomination for November's Manager of the Month award.
O'Neil's side did well to get themselves back on level terms but were poor defensively once again and have now conceded 38 goals this season – including 15 from set-pieces.
The visitors had a couple of penalty appeals turned down, with a VAR review at 1-0 deeming a risky Emerson challenge on Guedes to have taken place marginally outside the area. However, they only had themselves to blame as they slid to a 10th defeat of the season.
Wolves host an Ipswich Town side on Saturday who are also on nine points.
O'Neil will hope a return to Molineux can help them get back to winning ways, but after another damaging defeat, he will hope to still be at the helm.
Club reports
West Ham report | Wolves report
Match officials
Referee: John Brooks. Assistants: Simon Bennett, Dan Robathan. Fourth official: Tim Robinson. VAR: Andy Madley. Assistant VAR: Steve Meredith.
