
Daniel Munoz salvaged a dramatic 1-1 draw for Crystal Palace against Newcastle United in the Premier League on Saturday. 
Munoz had missed two glorious chances earlier in the match but made no mistake in the 94th minute as he nodded past Nick Pope at the far post. 
It looked like Newcastle – humbled at home by West Ham on Monday – would return to winning ways after Marc Guehi bundled Anthony Gordon’s low cross into his own net 53 minutes in. 
Yet Guehi played his part in an equaliser Palace deserved on the balance of play, as his floated cross was turned home by Munoz to spark jubilant celebrations at Selhurst Park. 
Palace move out of the relegation zone on goal difference, while Newcastle stay in 10th, as they missed the chance to move within a point of the top four. 
How the match unfolded
After a disjointed start owing to a spurt of Newcastle injuries, Palace got on top, and Pope made a sharp stop with his legs to keep out Ismaila Sarr, though the offside flag would have denied him anyway. 
A blistering counter-attack almost led to the opener in the 35th minute as Sarr sent a cross to the far post, but Munoz poked wide from close range. 
That profligacy came back to haunt Palace after the break as a cleverly worked Newcastle free-kick carved them open, and Guehi inadvertently turned Gordon’s cutback into his own net. 
Sarr was thwarted by Pope again just after the hour-mark, with the goalkeeper smothering his chip before Dan Burn blocked Munoz’s follow-up at the near post, while Jean-Philippe Mateta volleyed high over the bar from close range. 
But Palace kept pushing until the end, and their was delight for their fans when Munoz peeled off at the back post to convert from Guehi’s delivery. 
Palace show their mettle 
Oliver Glasner believes Palace’s performances have been getting better in recent weeks, but he could not deny that they needed a win at the start of a busy schedule. 
That victory did not arrive, but clutching a draw from the jaws of defeat will nevertheless be a huge boost. 
The Eagles have struggled to score at home this season, something they would have felt confident in rectifying with Eberechi Eze back from a hamstring injury.   
He carved out a good opening early on, only to have the ball stolen by Fabian Schar before he could take his shot, while he also linked up well with Sarr, who proved troublesome down Palace’s right. 
Despite Sarr’s pressure, he could not find a way past Newcastle’s goalkeeper, and even as Justin Devenny, who scored his first Premier League goal against Aston Villa last week was introduced along with Eddie Nketiah, it looked like Palace would draw another blank – until Munoz’s late intervention, that is. 
While Palace will feel they deserved all three points, they now travel to Ipswich Town with a spring in their step as they search for a first away win of the season. 
Pressure back on Newcastle 
After their disappointing loss to West Ham on Monday, and a trip to struggling Palace presented what looked like a great chance to bounce back. 
However, the Magpies failed to get going at Selhurst Park and were not helped when Alexander Isak had to make way early on due to what looked like a recurrence of a hip injury. 
Harvey Barnes replaced the forward and provided a threat from the right wing with fizzing low crosses, but with nobody to meet them in the box, the Palace defence comfortably dealt with the danger. 
Eddie Howe’s half-time team talk lit a fire under his players, though, as their bright start to the second half was rewarded with a goal. Gordon claimed the credit despite Guehi, a target of Newcastle in the transfer window, knocking it over the line. 
It was hardly a convincing performance though. They scored without even having an attempt on target, and had just one shot in total throughout. Next up are Liverpool, and the performance will have to be much better if Newcastle are to do damage against the Reds. 
