
Brighton & Hove Albion moved up to third in the Premier League table despite being held to a 1-1 draw by south coast rivals Southampton at Amex Stadium.
Kaoru Mitoma gave the Seagulls a 29th-minute lead after stealing in front of compatriot Yukinari Sugawara to head beyond top-flight debutant Joe Lumley.
Flynn Downes then drew the Saints level just before the hour-mark with a well-taken finish from the edge of the area, netting his first Premier League goal.
Southampton thought they had earned a first away victory of the season when Cameron Archer turned home from close range eight minutes later, only to see it ruled out for offside on pitch and confirmed by VAR.
Friday’s draw moves Brighton, at least temporarily, two places behind leaders Liverpool, who play Manchester City in a heavyweight contest on Sunday, while Southampton remain bottom.
How the match unfolded
After a confident start, Southampton almost found themselves behind early on when Sugawara’s loose touch presented the ball to Mitoma, but the Seagulls winger was unable to profit.
Georginio Rutter then crashed an effort against a post before Danny Welbeck nodded wide, but Brighton’s dominance finally prevailed when Tariq Lamptey’s teasing delivery was brilliantly headed home by Mitoma.
The visitors restored parity after the interval when Adam Armstrong’s blocked effort fell kindly into the path of Downes, who rifled the ball beyond Bart Verbruggen.
Archer had sent the visiting supporters into raptures after turning Ryan Fraser’s cross into the net, but the referee’s call of no goal was checked and confirmed by the VAR after Armstrong was deemed to be impacting Verbruggen’s view from an offside position.
That decision contributed to 10 minutes of stoppage time, and Brighton almost found a late winner when Mitoma picked out Simon Adingra, but his effort glanced off a post.
Seagulls miss huge opportunity
While Brighton moved up to second in the Premier League table, they missed a massive chance to put some distance between themselves and the chasing pack, seemingly taking their foot off the gas after half-time.
The Seagulls have now drawn with two of the three promoted sides this season, and it could prove crucial for their lofty aspirations of ending the campaign in the top four.
The hosts had several chances to open the scoring before Mitoma’s well-taken header, with Rutter and Welbeck going close, but were made to pay for their wastefulness in front of goal.
The Seagulls were perhaps fortunate to come away with a point after Archer’s disallowed strike, but they did have chances of their own to snatch a winner during second-half stoppage time through Adingra, who went agonisingly close.
This result should not take away their fine start to the campaign, though, and they will be aiming to return to winning ways against Fulham at Craven Cottage on Thursday.
Saints show their worth
Russell Martin has insisted his side have made improvements despite their position in the table, and that was on show, particularly in the second half against Brighton.
They had their chances in the opening period, though, with Ryan Manning’s cross into the box in the 11th minute crying out for someone to tap home, though that telling touch never came. 
Brighton continued to assert their dominance and were rewarded through Mitoma, but Martin was seen visibly upset at how easily the Japan international was able to ghost in at the far post.
Archer then squandered a golden opportunity in the 44th minute, blazing Sugawara’s cross over from eight yards out. However, they improved after the break and were rewarded through Downes, though he was perhaps fortunate to be on the pitch at the time of his goal after making a plethora of fouls, before being replaced by Joe Aribo.
Saints were able to hold on for a crucial point in their bid to avoid relegation, though face a tough test against Chelsea on Wednesday, made even more difficult with Downes, Tyler Dibling and Taylor Harwood-Bellis suspended after picking up their fifth yellow cards this season.
Club reports
Brighton report | Southampton report
Match officials
Referee: Rob Jones. Assistants: Neil Davies, Nick Hopton. Fourth official: John Busby. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Stuart Burt.
