
Anthony Gordon and Alexander Isak scored as Newcastle United came from behind to beat Tottenham Hotspur 2-1 and claim a fifth straight Premier League win.
Isak continued his rich form when he nudged home to put Newcastle ahead in the 38th minute of Saturday’s contest at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.
Spurs, ravaged by injury and illness, had named their youngest Premier League starting XI (23y, 336d) since March 2015 (23y, 290d). 
But it was Eddie Howe’s team that had to complete a turnaround after falling behind to Dominic Solanke’s excellent fourth-minute header.
Though Spurs’ defensive issues came back to bite when Gordon swiftly restored parity, just 140 seconds later. 
Isak pounced on Radu Dragusin’s error to score for a seventh consecutive league game and ensure a winning start to 2025.
While Newcastle consolidated their place in fifth, Ange Postecoglou’s Tottenham remain 11th as they suffered their 10th defeat in the league this season.
How the match unfolded
Under the watchful eye of new England boss Thomas Tuchel, two Three Lions hopefuls got the match off to a thrilling start. Solanke got the better of Sven Botman to head in from Pedro Porro’s excellent cross.
But Spurs’ lead lasted just 140 seconds, as Gordon slotted in coolly from a tight angle, with the goal confirmed after the VAR checked for handball by Joelinton in the build-up.
Gordon went close from a similar position in the 21st minute, but Brandon Austin made a sharp stop at his near post, before Isak prodded wide from Jacob Murphy’s centre.
Isak did not miss later, though, when another teasing Murphy cross was bundled into his path by Dragusin, with the Swede helping it into a gaping net.
Brennan Johnson hit the woodwork as Spurs searched for a response after the restart, though Gordon squandered a gilt-edged chance at the other end when he blazed over.
Substitute James Maddison curled just wide to spark a frantic conclusion in which Johnson and Sergio Reguilon flashed across the face of goal as an equaliser evaded Spurs.
An (Un)happy New Year
Tottenham conceded the first goal in 15 Premier League home games in 2024 and, even though they hit the front this time out, their makeshift defence could not cope with Newcastle’s quality in the final third.
They were unhappy with the decision to award Newcastle’s opener, with Lucas Bergvall’s pass having struck Joelinton’s arm before Bruno Guimaraes fed Gordon, but it was deemed that the Brazilian’s arm was in a natural position and the contact was accidental.
But Postecoglou must look at the scenario from which Newcastle’s equaliser came about. Only two minutes after taking the lead, Spurs took an unnecessary risk when playing out from the back, and were made to pay.
They also had a couple of warning signs prior to Isak putting Newcastle ahead. Gordon tested debutant goalkeeper Brandon Austin – standing in for the ill Fraser Forster – and Murphy found space down the right on multiple occasions before he eventually put in the cross that Dragusin bundled into Isak’s stride.
Dragusin was forced off at half-time as Spurs woes continued to mount, with Djed Spence having to partner Archie Gray in defence. To their credit, Tottenham held their own at the back from then on, but they could not find an equaliser at the other end – Johnson and Maddison going close before multiple cross-shots somehow avoided a glut of players in the box and Solanke headed just over.
Postecoglou needs his key players back, though, if Spurs – who face rivals Arsenal in their next league outing – are to get a season that is threatening to slip away completely, back on course.
Isak powering Newcastle’s Champions League charge
Howe was able to welcome back defender Botman from injury for his first start of the season, though the Dutchman – who went off with what looked like cramp late on – was caught out when Solanke stole in to open the scoring.
But given that there has never been a goalless Premier League draw between these teams, it was no surprise that the scoring started early. Howe will have been delighted with how his team responded to going behind, especially when considering that was the first top-flight goal Newcastle had conceded since their 4-2 loss at Brentford on 7 December.
Gordon got things going for the visitors, as he sent a message to the onlooking Tuchel with a superb finish low into the far corner from the left-hand side of the box.
Isak, though, is Newcastle’s man of the moment. He showed rare profligacy when he diverted wide in the 32nd minute, but he swiftly atoned with what was his sixth league goal against Spurs.
Gordon should probably have supplied a pass for another potential tap-in for Isak in the second half, but lashed over instead. Though Newcastle were not made to pay for that miss as they held on, including through 10 minutes of stoppage time, to apply further pressure to the top four.
Club reports
Tottenham Hotspur | Newcastle 
What the managers said
Ange Postecoglou: "On the balance of play, any balance you want with all things being equal, we would have won today. Outstanding. I couldn't be prouder of the players. I couldn't ask any more. It's a game we would have won if all things were equal. If all things were equal and balanced we would have won today. Things weren't equal and balanced."
Eddie Howe: "We had to dig deep today. It was a tough win but a massive one. There's no denying the ball hit Joe's hand or arm but I'm not sure of the rules.  Confidence has definitely shifted, it naturally does when you win games. It was something we were building to. Performances were good. We're a very good team with good players. I'd like to think we can keep it going."
Match officials
Referee: Andy Madley. Assistants: Nick Hopton, Craig Taylor. Fourth official: Lewis Smith. VAR: Chris Kavanagh. Assistant VAR: Sian Massey-Ellis.
