
Harry Maguire secured 10-man Manchester United a first Premier League win since January, edging Ipswich Town 3-2 at Old Trafford.
United had staged a first-half comeback, with Sam Morsy’s own goal and Matthijs de Ligt’s close-range finish flipping the script after Jaden Philogene profited from an early defensive mix-up.
Patrick Dorgu, who was partly at fault for Ipswich’s opener, was then shown a red card by the referee following a VAR review for a late challenge on Omari Hutchinson before Philogene’s second pulled Ipswich level.
But it was Maguire who had the final say, with his thumping header from a corner sealing a much-needed win for Ruben Amorim’s side on Wednesday.
United moved up to 14th on 33 points, but Ipswich, who are yet to win a league game in 2025, remain third-bottom and five points behind Wolverhampton Wanderers.
How the match unfolded
Ipswich were gifted the opener after a terrible mix-up just four minutes in with Dorgu kicking the ball past Andre Onana, who had rushed off his line, leaving Philogene with the easiest of tap-ins at an empty net.
United got a stroke of luck for the equaliser as Bruno Fernandes’ curling free-kick was headed into his own net by the unsuspecting Morsy.
Four minutes later, they were level, with Alex Palmer making a brilliant double save to deny Maguire and Diogo Dalot before De Ligt rifled it into the roof of the net.
However, Dorgu was then sent off by the referee following a VAR review after catching Hutchinson with his studs, and Ipswich equalised on the stroke of half-time, Philogene curling in a cross that flew past the stranded Onana.
The hosts got an early goal of their own in the second half, as Fernandes’ corner was thumped into the net by a stooping Maguire.
Ipswich applied pressure, going close through Philogene, who tested Onana with a whipped shot from the edge of the box late on, but they could not find another equaliser.
United stop Old Trafford rot
United’s comeback against Everton to earn a 2-2 draw did little to ease the pressure on the team and, though they won on Wednesday, it was far from convincing.
Audible groans were heard from the Old Trafford crowd after Philogene’s first goal, with a lack of communication leading to neither Dorgu nor Onana properly dealing with Morsy’s long ball over the top.
United responded well to the early setback though, with Maguire’s fine thumping header kept out by Palmer before they eventually found parity through Morsy’s own goal – their first from open play in the first half of a Premier League game since early December.
Any goodwill that De Ligt had earned with his poached finish was reversed following Dorgu’s red and Onana’s indecisiveness as Philogene’s cross snuck into the far post.
Fernandes continued to provide a threat from set-pieces though and, having picked out Maguire a few times in the first half, they finally got it right shortly after the break, with the defender sneaking in front of Philogene to meet it.
After a shaky defensive showing in the first half, United looked well-drilled in the second, throwing bodies on the line to make continuous blocks to end a run of three Premier League games without a win.
It is only a second home league win in seven games for Amorim’s side, with second-place Arsenal the next visitors on 9 March.
Chance goes begging for Ipswich
Kieran McKenna said he was “relishing” his return to Old Trafford, where he worked as a coach under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, and knew a win could give them a huge boost in the fight for Premier League survival.
Liam Delap had already dragged a shot wide before Philogene gave them the lead, but Ipswich could not maintain their quick start, instead dropping deep to deal with United’s growing threat.
They finished the first half as they started it though, with Philogene causing problems from distance this time. He may have been looking for Delap with his cross but will not complain about getting a second goal to his name.
With a numerical advantage against a United side that are struggling, they could not hope for a better opportunity to earn their first win since beating Chelsea in December, but they could not impose themselves in the second half.
They dominated possession and made some promising inroads through Philogene and Delap, while piling on the pressure, though they struggled to test Onana. With time running out, they resorted to long-range strikes that United were happy to deal with.
Ipswich’s search for a first Premier League win in 2025 continues, with a difficult trip to Crystal Palace ahead of them.
Club reports
Man United report | Ipswich report
Match officials
Referee: Darren England. Assistants: Neil Davies, Akil Howson. Fourth official: Sam Barrott. VAR: Craig Pawson. Assistant VAR: Adam Nunn.
