
Fulham returned to winning ways in the Premier League as Marco Silva's side sealed a 2-0 win at Leicester City.
Following a midweek loss at West Ham United, which ended an eight-game unbeaten run in the league, the visitors stayed composed here as second-half goals from Emile Smith Rowe and Adama Traore secured their victory.
The hosts had the better of the first half, but failed to press home their advantage and were punished after the break, with Smith Rowe heading home early on.
Fulham again showed their clinical edge as Traore volleyed home from close range in the 68th minute.
A seventh successive Premier League defeat keeps Leicester 19th in the table, two points from safety, as Fulham go ninth.
How the match unfolded
The hosts carved out the better chances in the opening stages, with Bernd Leno denying Jordan Ayew inside the first 90 seconds. Victor Kristiansen also curled wide after slaloming into the Fulham box just before the half-hour mark.
It was that lack of cutting edge that proved costly for Leicester, as Fulham seized their chance after restart when Smith Rowe nodded home Sasa Lukic's flick on.
That seemed to knock Leicester's confidence and Ayew wasted a half-chance to equalise, before Traore calmly volleyed home from Harry Wilson's dinked cross.
With the chances of a comeback diminishing, Leicester continued to battle away and Jamie Vardy snatched just wide in the closing stages.
Vardy did almost grab a late consolation as Leno clawed away his close-range drive, before a delayed offside flag denied the Foxes captain anyway.
Vardy fails to carry Foxes
Vardy remains a menace for Premier League defences but the veteran striker's potency could not get them anything here.
His sharpness in and around the opposition penalty box means he continues to be Leicester's main attacking threat but Ruud van Nistelrooy will be acutely aware of the need for a Plan B to the 38-year-old.
Successive Premier League games without a goal exemplifies just how much Leicester are struggling to drag themselves out of the relegation zone.
Van Nistelrooy's side are not the only team in the bottom three with issues in finding the back of the net on a regular basis, but failure to address the situation in the coming weeks could decide their fate at the end of the campaign.
Van Nistelrooy and Leicester now face successive away games at Tottenham and fellow strugglers Everton, and they need the supporting cast to lighten the load on Vardy.
Smith Rowe finds his feet in Silva's system
Smith Rowe made the call to revive his Premier League career at Fulham in the summer and the former Arsenal star is beginning to show why he is so highly rated.
His bravery to dive in and convert Fulham's breakthrough goal at the King Power Stadium showed his tenacity and intelligence. His first game for the club came in the reverse fixture against Leicester earlier in the season.
A tactical tweak from Silva unlocked Smith Rowe's strengths here as he benefited from a solid midfield base behind him.
The call to start Sander Berge and Lukic in two-man defensive midfield set up allowed Smith Rowe the flexibility to concentrate on his preferred no.10 role.
That small change gave the visitors more balance in the middle of the pitch, with Lukic and Berge winning the battle, and Smith Rowe adding some spark.
Silva's smart decisions are powering Fulham's push for Europe this season and Smith Rowe will be hopeful of retaining his starting spot at home to Manchester United next weekend.
Club reports
Leicester report | Fulham report
