
Erling Haaland scored twice as Manchester City claimed back-to-back Premier League victories for the first time since October with a rampant 4-1 win over West Ham United at the Etihad Stadium.
Haaland netted either side of the break, first heading home from Savinho’s delivery to put City 2-0 up, with the Brazilian having played a key role in the hosts’ opener when his cross was turned inadvertently in by Vladimir Coufal.
Savinho also teed up Haaland’s second to make it 3-0 after 55 minutes, before Phil Foden ruthlessly punished a mistake at the back by the Hammers three minutes later.
The visitors grabbed a consolation when Niclas Fullkrug swept in Tomas Soucek’s cross, but the damage had already been done.
Pep Guardiola’s team remain sixth, two points adrift of the top four, while West Ham are 13th.
How the match unfolded
The hosts hit the front after 10 minutes when Savinho – on the back of scoring his first Man City goal in the win over Leicester City last time out – twisted and turned before his cross into the box was deflected beyond Alphonse Areola by the unfortunate Coufal.
Savinho continued to cause problems down Man City's left wing and he was involved again for the second goal, brilliantly bypassing Coufal before delivering to the back post for Haaland to nod home.
Savinho produced his second assist of the day 10 minutes after half-time, slipping Haaland in behind, with the Norwegian delicately lifting the ball over the onrushing Areola.
Man City then capitalised on Mohammed Kudus’s poor pass, which allowed Kevin De Bruyne to put the ball on a plate for Foden to finish.







But having threatened to score on several occasions after the break, the Hammers eventually grabbed a consolation goal through Fullkrug in the 71st minute.
New year, new City?
After a torrid end to 2024, Man City started the new year looking a lot more like the side who claimed a record fourth consecutive Premier League title last season.
But ever the perfectionist, Guardiola will be striving for improvements moving forward, with West Ham threatening to score on several occasions in the closing stages.
As City began to turn the screw in the first half, Areola was forced to save efforts from Bernardo Silva and Rico Lewis.
Haaland then notched his side’s second goal to relieve the pressure before brilliantly dinking in for his double as he scored at home for the first time since 26 October.
De Bruyne then marked his 400th appearance for City in all competitions with an assist for Foden, as the hosts netted a fourth goal in a match for the first time since August.
But there were still signs of fragility at the back late on, with Fullkrug’s effort taking the shine off an otherwise impressive display.
Guardiola’s side will be in FA Cup action, at home to Salford City, before their next Premier League fixture, against Brentford at the Gtech Community Stadium.
Bowen blow blunts Hammers
Julen Lopetegui had been dealt an attacking blow ahead of kick-off with talisman Jarrod Bowen ruled out with a fractured foot. The West Ham captain has been involved in more away goals than any of his team-mates in the top flight this season, and his absence was felt in Manchester.
West Ham nevertheless started brightly when Kudus struck the side netting on the break, before the Ghanaian teed up an unmarked Soucek, who fired wide from inside the box.
Lucas Paqueta then dragged an effort wide, with the Hammers missing that clinical presence in the final third that Bowen so often provides.
Quickfire strikes from Haaland and Foden put the match beyond doubt, and West Ham have now conceded nine goals in their last two top-flight encounters.
However, the Hammers continued to push forward, with Paqueta sending a free-kick narrowly over before Soucek's effort was repelled. Fullkrug’s goal was almost added to by Paqueta as he prodded an attempt wide late on.
West Ham will be hoping for a return to winning ways in the FA Cup against Aston Villa, before they host Fulham in the Premier League.
Club reports
Man City report | West Ham report
What the managers said
Pep Guardiola: "We won a game, still we are not at our best but winning will help us. We had good moments but I’ve been here eight years and we have seen the team playing and it is not at our standards. Still we have to find our tempo and the way we want to play. West Ham played good and had chances."
Julen Lopetegui: “ We did very well in a lot of moments above all in the first half. We had very clear situations to score but if you don't take advantage of these options against this kind of team you know you are going to suffer."
Match officials
Referee: Michael Salisbury. Assistants: Eddie Smart, Derek Eaton. Fourth official: Oli Langford. VAR: Graham Scott. Assistant VAR: Scott Ledger.
