
Diogo Jota came off the bench to spare Liverpool's blushes as the Premier League leaders earned a potentially crucial point in a 1-1 draw with Nottingham Forest at the City Ground.
Forest entered Tuesday's game on a seven-match winning run in all competitions and as the only team to have beaten Liverpool in league action, winning 1-0 at Anfield in September.
They threatened to complete a famous double when Chris Wood gave them an early lead, appearing comfortable until the 66th minute.
However, Jota headed home with his first touch after coming on as a substitute, with Matz Sels then forced into three spectacular saves and Ola Aina making a pair of vital goalline clearances to deny the visitors a winner.
The result keeps Liverpool six points clear of second-placed Forest, with a game in hand, though their advantage at the summit could be cut to four points if Arsenal can beat Tottenham Hotspur in the north London derby at Emirates Stadium on Wednesday.
How the match unfolded
Forest demonstrated their counter-attacking prowess within eight minutes as Wood fired them ahead. Anthony Elanga charged through midfield before slipping a pass to the New Zealander, who slotted his finish across Alisson and into the bottom-right corner.
Murillo sent a long-range effort whistling over the top as Liverpool struggled to cope with Forest's physicality, with the visitors failing to record a single shot on target before half-time.
However, Arne Slot’s double substitution after 66 minutes proved inspired. Jota and Kostas Tsimikas entered the fray and immediately combined for the leveller, the former nodding the latter's corner home.
Jota was central to everything positive about Liverpool's play, and Sels repelled two of his efforts – the second a brilliant sprawling stop, which Aina backed up in the first of two excellent clearances.
Sels saved his best stops for last, springing to his right to tip Mohamed Salah's curler over and turning Cody Gakpo's drive around the post, as Forest held on.
Forest show their worth
Earlier this week, Liverpool boss Slot outlined his belief that Forest are genuine title challengers, and on Tuesday, they proved they are serious contenders for UEFA Champions League football at the very least.
Forest's 3-0 victory at Wolves last week was their sixth in a row in the Premier League, giving them the opportunity to win seven straight league games for the first time since September 1979, when they were European Cup holders and on their way to defending that title.
Under the legendary Brian Clough, Forest regularly battled Liverpool for major honours in those days, with the clubs finishing as the top two in the First Division in both 1977/78 and 1978/79, winning a title apiece. 
Forest's dream season really got going on Merseyside in September, when they produced a memorable rearguard action to clinch the win. Forest did not play like underdogs here though, unsettling Liverpool with their energy and physicality to take a deserved lead.
However, one lapse in concentration saw two points slip away. Murillo and Wood – two of Forest's standout performers – allowed Jota to get between them from Tsimikas' corner, nodding home with Liverpool's first shot on target.
It was a ruthless reminder that to stay the course in the title race, Forest will have to be perfect. Sunday's visit of bottom club Southampton, though, represents an opportunity to get back to winning ways.
Jota saves stuttering Reds
Throughout the first half of the campaign, it appeared Slot's Liverpool could do no wrong. However, the Reds have not quite looked their imperious selves in 2025.
A flat performance in a 2-2 Premier League draw with Manchester United brought criticism before they struggled to carve out clear-cut chances in their League Cup semi-final first leg defeat at Spurs last week.
For over an hour, it was more of the same at the City Ground. Liverpool were lethargic in possession, too often outmuscled in midfield and saw their attackers struggle, with Salah struggling to have an influence.
But Liverpool's advantage lies in their strength in depth. When Slot's starters struggled, he threw on Jota and was rewarded with a goal just 22 seconds later.
That is the fastest Premier League goal by a Liverpool substitute on record (since 2006/07), and if not for Sels' brilliance between the sticks, the Portugal international – like Salah or Gakpo – might have been the matchwinner.
Liverpool's lead at the summit will be cut if Arsenal win Wednesday's north London derby, but with a game in hand and meetings with Brentford, Ipswich Town and AFC Bournemouth up next, Slot's men are still in a strong position.
Club reports
Forest report | Liverpool report
"First half was very organised. We did not allow too many situations for Liverpool. They had possession but were not able to break us.
"We knew in the second half that they would react. The game went a bit up and down and we knew in that moment that they could be dangerous. They had control and with the speed and the talent they created so many chances.
"Overall I'm proud of the way we worked. The running and desire of the players was incredible."
Match officials
Referee: Chris Kavanagh. Assistants: Stuart Burt, James Mainwaring. Fourth official: John Busby. VAR: John Brooks. Assistant VAR: Derek Eaton.
