
Eberechi Eze scored a second-half winner as Crystal Palace came from behind to round out the year with a crucial 2-1 victory over struggling Southampton at Selhurst Park. 
The visitors started brightly and took a shock early lead through Tyler Dibling after an excellent run from Kyle Walker-Peters. 
But Palace rallied well and got back on level terms before half-time with a Trevoh Chalobah header from a corner, despite Southampton’s complaints that goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale was impeded. 
The home side took the lead seven minutes after the break as Eze struck a powerful effort past Ramsdale from just outside the penalty area, and they held on for all three points. 
A win for Palace sees them move above Everton into 15th position, while Southampton remain bottom with just one win and six points to show for their efforts across the first half of the season. 
The first real chance of the game went Palace’s way, with Jean-Philippe Mateta teeing up Eze 12 yards out but the England international’s shot was straight at Ramsdale. 
It was Saints who took the lead after 14 minutes, as great work from Walker-Peters saw him burst past the challenge of Daniel Munoz down the left before playing in Adam Armstrong, who found Dibling to fire in from close-range. 
Palace found an equaliser just after the half-hour mark when a corner by Will Hughes was bundled in by Chalobah despite Ramsdale’s pleas that he was obstructed by Mateta, before the keeper was forced to make a fine one-handed stop to deny Ismalia Sarr. 
Palace continued to perform the better of the two sides and they claimed the lead early in the second half, as Eze smartly fired in after Saints struggled to clear their lines. 
The home side largely remained comfortable after going ahead, with Southampton’s only real chance coming about through a jinking run by Mateus Fernandes, but his left-footed strike was tipped over by Dean Henderson. 
Palace end 2024 on a high 
Marc Guehi’s suspension for this game was a blow for Oliver Glasner’s men, and his absence was keenly felt early on, as Palace initially struggled with Southampton’s direct approach and conceded a very soft goal by their standards. 
However, despite going behind, Palace responded well and could easily have been ahead by half-time, having dominated large parts of the opening half and created plenty of chances.  
Sarr could not convert when one-on-one with Ramsdale and Munoz saw an effort cleared off the line, while Jefferson Lerma went close twice, with a stinging effort from outside the area and then an overhead kick. 
Mateta grew into the game too, often getting the better of Jan Bednarek in the air and drawing in Southampton’s three central defenders, which in turn created space for the likes of Sarr and Eze to exploit. 
There were concerns about the availability of Hughes after he went off against Bournemouth on Boxing Day with a knee injury, but he highlighted his importance to the side with a controlled performance that included an assist before coming off with five minutes to go. 
Eze capped his own fine performance, which included a skilful dink over Taylor Harwood-Bellis to win a free kick, with a fantastic goal out of nothing, and his form may prove crucial in the early parts of 2025 as Palace look to continue their recovery from a difficult start and move further up the table. 
Glasner will hope his side, boosted by the return of Guehi, can continue keep up the momentum from this display when they host Chelsea in a London derby on January 4. 
Back-to-back defeats to begin Juric’s reign 
Ivan Juric believed his side were unfortunate to be on the receiving end of a home defeat to West Ham in his first match in charge following an encouraging performance. 
They followed up that display by starting positively here and made it count with their first goal in four league matches. 
Juric’s coaching already appears to be having the desired effect on some players, with Walker-Peters performing well in both matches, including his brilliant work in this one for Dibling’s goal. 
Paul Onuachu was an impressive aerial threat, winning the ball on numerous occasions and bringing the likes of Dibling and Armstrong into play in those inside forward positions. But Palace snuffed out the supply as the match progressed and he was ultimately substituted after 65 minutes. 
Indeed, after a strong opening Saints were second best as they struggled to contain a Palace onslaught and they continue to concede soft goals, with weak defending contributing to Chalobah’s goal and a failure to deal with a looping aerial ball proving detrimental for the second. 
Despite Juric only having just taken over and some promising signs, the situation does not look promising. Just one Premier League side, Sheffield United in 2020/21, have ever had less points going into the new year. 
A home victory against Brentford in their first match of 2025 next Saturday is of the upmost importance if Southampton are going to mount an improbable escape from relegation in the second half of the season.  
Club reports
Crystal Palace report | Southampton report 
 
