
Manager David Moyes oversaw the first victory of his second Everton spell, as the Toffees held on for a 3-2 win over Tottenham Hotspur at Goodison Park.
Dominic Calvert-Lewin and Iliman Ndiaye were on target for the hosts, who ended a six-match winless streak in the Premier League.
Moyes’ side struck twice inside the opening 30 minutes, with Calvert-Lewin netting his first goal in 16 league games before Ndiaye’s fine individual effort doubled their lead.
An Archie Gray own-goal made it 3-0 before the break, but Dejan Kulusevski and Richarlison netted late on to ensure a nervy finish for Everton, who held on for victory.
The Toffees remain in 16th place but move four points clear of the relegation zone – the same margin that now separates them from 15th-place Spurs, who are without a win in six league outings.
How the match unfolded
Everton struck first in the 13th minute as Idrissa Gueye found Calvert-Lewin, who neatly jinked away from three Spurs challenges before slotting past goalkeeper Antonin Kinsky.
The Toffees continued to be positive and after Orel Mangala saw a curling effort tipped against a post, the hosts doubled their lead in the 30th minute. A one-two with Gueye released Ndiaye, who drove at the Spurs defence, beat Radu Dragusin and fired into the roof of the net.
It was 3-0 in first-half stoppage time. Calvert-Lewin could not quite apply the finishing touch after James Tarkowski helped Jesper Lindstrom’s deep ball into the six-yard box, but Gray did, as he turned into his own net.
Despite the introduction of former Everton forward Richarlison at half-time, it was not until the 77th minute that Spurs reduced their arrears as Kulusevski neatly lofted into an empty net.
Richarlison then turned in Mikey Moore’s cross following a well-worked short corner in added time to set up a grandstand finish, but it was too late to deny the hosts a morale-boosting win.
Everton deliver Moyes’ first win of second spell
Coincidentally, Everton’s last home Premier League victory against Spurs came during the final season of Moyes’ first spell in 2012/13, and it proved a good omen.
The Scot may not have enjoyed a happy homecoming on Wednesday as his first match after returning as manager ended in a 1-0 defeat to Aston Villa.
However, his players certainly made up for it four days later, with Lindstrom’s early long-range effort a sign of things to come.
Calvert-Lewin’s dry spell was epitomised when he missed a late chance to equalise against Villa in midweek. But if he was lacking in confidence, it did not show as he took the opportunity to score his first league goal since September with aplomb.
Ndiaye’s moment of individual quality doubled the advantage and when Gray put through his own net, Everton led a Premier League game at half-time by three goals for the first time in nearly eight years.
Although they were given a scare towards the end, the hosts generally maintained their discipline to see out a victory that Moyes will hope proves to be the turning point in their season, which continues away at Brighton & Hove Albion next Saturday.
Spurs’ struggles continue
Without a win in five league games, Spurs’ hopes of ending that streak were dented when Dominic Solanke was ruled out not long before kick-off, adding to their extensive injury woes.
Spurs now have 10 senior players out injured. 
The visitors responded well to Calvert-Lewin’s opener. It took a well-timed Tarkowski sliding challenge to deny Son Heung-min, who also shot straight at Jordan Pickford soon after.
However, that positive response stalled when Ndiaye capitalised on the space between their defence and midfield before Gray found himself in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Spurs struggled to generate a decent attacking threat for most of the second half, with their first attempt of the period not coming until the 73rd minute when James Maddison shot high and wide.
Kulusevski – perhaps their best player of the match – offered a glimmer of hope, and Richarlison’s brave finish suddenly gave them a chance of snatching a dramatic point.
But it was too little, too late for Postecoglou’s side, whose desperate need for a league win continues when they host struggling Leicester City next Sunday.
Club reports
Everton report | Spurs report
Match officials
Referee: Darren England (pictured). Assistants: Marc Perry, Akil Howson. Fourth official: Tony Harrington. VAR: John Brooks. Assistant VAR: Scott Ledger.
