
Ollie Watkins’ second-half strike ensured David Moyes’ second stint in charge of Everton began with a 1-0 defeat to Aston Villa.
Following Sean Dyche’s departure, the Scotsman returned to Goodison Park this week – just under 12 years after his successful first spell came to an end with him leaving for Manchester United.
But unlike his initial tenure, he could not begin his second with a victory, as Watkins struck to secure all three points for Villa early in the second half.
The England international raced onto Morgan Rogers’ through-ball and netted to end a run of five successive away league defeats for Unai Emery’s side.
Villa climb a place to seventh and within three points of the top four, while Everton remain 16th and just a point clear of the relegation zone.
How the match unfolded
Villa carried the greater attacking threat early on as Jordan Pickford pushed away Rogers' curling effort and James Tarkowski's strong block thwarted Youri Tielemans before a loose pass from Ashley Young released Watkins, who shot wide with only the goalkeeper to beat.
Everton gradually found their way into the match and Dominic Calvert-Lewin drilled narrowly wide from Vitalii Mykolenko's long ball, with the striker also seeing a shot cleared off the line by Boubacar Kamara.
The visitors went close in first-half stoppage time when Rogers' shot ricocheted kindly for Jacob Ramsey, who fired inches wide of the target.
However, Villa were not to be denied six minutes after the restart. Rogers pounced on a loose ball in midfield and released Watkins, who calmly slotted past Pickford.
Everton generally struggled to trouble their opponents’ defence, though they saw a golden opportunity to equalise go begging in stoppage time, with Calvert-Lewin firing over from Jesper Lindstrom’s cross.
No happy homecoming for Moyes
Back in March 2002, Moyes stepped out at Goodison Park as Walter Smith’s successor, commencing an 11-year stay with the Toffees, who he would lead to nine top-eight finishes in the Premier League.
Just shy of 23 years later, it was a case of déjà vu for Moyes after replacing Dyche at the start of the week.
However, having overseen a 2-1 victory over Fulham in his first match at the helm over two decades earlier, he could not make a winning start this time around.
To their credit, his players demonstrated plenty of energy and urgency that will certainly encourage him going forward.
But the fact they have now failed to score in nine of their last 11 league matches was epitomised by Calvert-Lewin’s late opportunity that he could not keep down.
While there were positives to build on, the lack of goals is a cause for concern, and something Moyes will look to address by the time his side welcome Tottenham Hotspur to Goodison Park on Sunday.
Villa end away-day blues
Villa’s form away from home had become a concern for Emery and his players recently.
They came into this match with five straight league defeats on the road – not since their relegation season of 2015/16 had they suffered a longer such streak.
Nevertheless, the visitors were quickly into their stride at Goodison Park, where they had kept a clean sheet on their three most recent visits.
Only fine margins and superb last-ditch defending prevented them from getting the opener in the first half.
Aside from Calvert-Lewin’s last-gasp chance, the Villa defence were untroubled after taking the lead and eventually saw out all three points.
Starting a calendar year with back-to-back league wins for the first time since 2009 under Martin O’Neill, Emery will return to the Emirates Stadium to face Arsenal on Saturday with his side carrying momentum.
Match reports 
Everton report | Aston Villa report
Match officials
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Lee Betts, Wade Smith. Fourth official: Anthony Backhouse. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Scott Ledger.
 
