
Manchester City’s revival in 2025 continued as they surged into the Premier League’s top four after thumping Ipswich Town 6-0 at Portman Road on Sunday.
Phil Foden starred for Pep Guardiola’s side, with his assist for Mateo Kovacic sandwiched in between two close-range finishes in the first half, both set up by captain Kevin De Bruyne.
The visitors pulled further clear after the break, with Jack Clarke’s sloppy pass into midfield punished by Jeremy Doku, whose strike took a deflection off Dara O'Shea on its way through.
And in the week of signing a new nine-and-a-half-year contract, Erling Haaland got himself on the scoresheet before substitute James McAtee rounded off the scoring in the 69th minute.
City jump up into the final UEFA Champions League place at the expense of Newcastle United on goal difference. Ipswich, meanwhile, stay in 18th.
How the match unfolded
After Haaland had missed an earlier opportunity to open the scoring, the Citizens found the opener 27 minutes in as Foden turned in De Bruyne's deflected cross.
The England international turned provider for City’s second of the match three minutes later, teeing up Kovacic, who found the bottom left-hand corner from the edge of the box.
The visitors extended their lead before the break as De Bruyne and Foden combined again, with the latter squeezing the ball under Christian Walton for his second successive brace away from home in the Premier League.
Four minutes after the restart, Doku added to their tally following a stunning solo run, with Haaland then netting his 17th league goal of the campaign before the hour-mark.
Having grabbed a goal in the first half, Kovacic delicately delivered the ball into the box for McAtee to head home his first Premier League goal for the Citizens to add further gloss on an emphatic display.
Ipswich outclassed by revitalised champions
There was a sense of optimism surrounding Portman Road ahead of kick-off, but City ruthlessly shattered any hopes of a monumental upset.
Having started brightly but failing to test Ederson, Ipswich were unable to lay a glove on the champions who took control in the 15th minute, though Omari Hutchinson did blaze a glorious chance over moments before Foden opened the scoring.
But perhaps the most telling moment of the difference in quality came when Ben Johnson stung the palms of Ederson following a lightning counter-attack, only for Doku to put the visitors 4-0 to the good at the other end mere moments later.
Though City rung the changes with the contest won early in the second half, the hosts were unable to match their opponents’ quality in reserve, with the only positives being the debuts for the newly-signed Godfrey and Jaden Philogene.
Ipswich’s run of games does not get any easier, with a trip to Anfield to face leaders Liverpool up next, before they return to Portman Road to take on fellow strugglers Southampton at the start of February.
New year, new Foden
In the midst of City’s unprecedented turn of form towards the end of last year, Foden more than most was a player supporters were looking to see more from, having notched 39 goal involvements in 53 appearances across all competitions for the Citizens in 2023/24.
But he has since found his form for Guardiola’s side, showcasing why he is one of the most supreme talents in the top flight.
City should have gone ahead early on when De Bruyne slipped in Haaland, but the Norwegian saw his finish tipped over by Walton, with the resulting corner seeing Doku test the Tractor Boys’ goalkeeper at his near post.
Jens Cajuste then had his pocket picked by Ilkay Gundogan which ended in Kovacic firing over the crossbar, but City were able to assert their dominance in double-quick time, with Foden playing a starring role in their three first-half strikes.
As the visitors pulled further clear, Guardiola was able to make changes, with Foden, De Bruyne and Haaland all withdrawn with one eye on their Champions League trip to Paris Saint-Germain on Wednesday.
Club reports
Ipswich report | Man City report
Match officials
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Timothy Wood, Richard West. Fourth official: Tim Robinson. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Nick Hopton.
