
Crystal Palace overcame the challenge of playing the whole of the second half with 10 men to hold AFC Bournemouth to a 0-0 draw, denting the Cherries' hopes of European qualification.
Palace, who had conceded 10 goals across their previous two matches against Manchester City and Newcastle United, had to play more than half of this contest with a numerical disadvantage after Chris Richards was dismissed for a second bookable offence.
Nevertheless, Bournemouth were unable to capitalise while having the extra man, with the breakthrough ultimately eluding both sides.
Bournemouth stay eighth and are five points adrift of seventh-placed Chelsea, who visit west London rivals Fulham on Sunday, while Palace remain five points behind Andoni Iraola’s side in 12th.
How the match unfolded
There were few chances in the first half. Dango Ouattara called Dean Henderson into action from a tight angle and Evanilson sent a speculative overhead kick way over the crossbar, but that was as close as either side came to breaking the deadlock.
Palace were reduced to 10 men in first-half stoppage time, with Richards shown a second yellow card after he was deemed to have dragged Justin Kluivert back.
But neither team's fortunes in front of goal improved after the break. Jean-Philippe Mateta also attempted an acrobatic effort that was never going to trouble the goalkeeper.
At the other end, Ouattara tried his luck again from a tight angle, but Henderson comfortably gathered once more.
Bournemouth increased the pressure late on as they desperately tried to capitalise on their numerical advantage, but they did so without success and were forced to settle for a point.
Palace tighten up at the back
Palace came into this contest desperate to stop the rot.
Following a seven-match unbeaten streak in all competitions, the Eagles had come crashing down to earth with their heavy defeats to Manchester City and Newcastle United.
But Glasner’s side had won their last three Premier League home matches, with Mateta scoring 18 times in 22 league appearances at Selhurst Park, where Eberechi Eze had been directly involved in 19 goals in 30 league games.
However, neither player was able to inspire the hosts during a generally lacklustre display from both sides.
Nevertheless, Palace can take positives from the way they stood firm defensively following Richards’ red card to ensure a clean sheet.
That is what Glasner will be urging his players to focus on ahead of travelling to Arsenal in midweek, before attention turns to their FA Cup semi-final against Aston Villa on Saturday.
Missed chance for Cherries?
Bournemouth, meanwhile, were fresh from stopping a rot of their own. Iraola’s side had gone six matches in all competitions without victory before edging out Fulham 1-0 on Monday. 
With seventh-placed Villa playing high-flying Newcastle later on Saturday, the Cherries knew this was a decent opportunity to potentially close the gap to just three points heading into the last five games of the Premier League season.
Despite failing to win any of their last 10 league games in London, they arrived as the league’s second-highest scorers away from home this season, only behind leaders Liverpool.
With Evanilson scoring six times in nine league appearances away from the Vitality Stadium and Kluivert starting behind the Brazilian, Iraola will have been confident in their chances.
However, they were unable to find the breakthrough despite playing the entire second half with an extra man.
The run-in will certainly test Bournemouth’s credentials in their quest for European football. After hosting Manchester United next weekend, they take on Arsenal, Villa and Manchester City, before concluding the campaign at home to Leicester City.
Club reports
Crystal Palace report | Bournemouth report
Match officials
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Tim Wood, Wade Smith. Fourth official: Andy Davies. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Craig Taylor.
