
Wolverhampton Wanderers took a huge step towards Premier League safety as they went nine points clear of safety with a 2-1 win at Southampton.
The home side failed to capitalise on a bright start, with Jorgen Strand Larsen heading the opener after Jean-Ricner Bellegarde’s wonderful delivery.
Wolves doubled their advantage just two minutes into the second half, as poor defending from the hosts saw Strand Larsen shift onto his right foot and fire an effort into the bottom far corner.
Southampton pulled a goal back with 15 minutes remaining through Paul Onuachu’s rebounded finish after Tyler Dibling’s shot had struck a post, but Wolves held on.
Wolves remain in 17th place but are now nine points clear of Ipswich, while Southampton stay bottom of the table with nine points from 29 matches.
How the match unfolded
Southampton started the better of the two sides and earned an early chance as Yukinari Sugawara scampered down the right before delivering a dangerous ball across the face of goal, but Kamaldeen Sulemana couldn't finish from close range.
Joe Aribo blasted an effort over as Saints continued to dominate the early stages, but it was the visitors that took the lead against the run of play. Bellegarde’s pinpoint cross was met by a fine header from Strand Larsen.
Both of them combined once more just two minutes into the second half, as Bellegarde picked out Strand Larsen to stroke an effort home.
Southampton looked for a way back and went close, as Jose Sa saved from Sugawara and Onuachu.
They did find the net eventually after Dibling’s shot struck a post with Onuachu on hand to follow up to provide a grandstand finish but Wolves held on.
Southampton show fight in defeat
Ivan Juric’s men have endured a poor campaign thus far. But they could at least take some encouragement from their battling display last weekend against Liverpool in which they led at half-time before succumbing to a 3-1 defeat.
They also made a decent start here, with Sugawara getting plenty of the ball, causing problems down the right and unfortunate not to pick up an assist as Sulemana failed to bundle home his fine cross.
But once again, Southampton paid for poor defending. Any confidence after a good start drained from the players after conceding the opener.
Most of the fluency and attacking incision of the opening 20 minutes fell away during the remainder of the half, though they deserve credit for fighting back in the second period. Dibling was at the centre of their most promising attacks and had a key hand in the goal.
But Juric’s side gave themselves too much to do. Poor defending on the transition contributed to Wolves’ second goal after the second half had barely started.
Southampton return to action with another home match on 2 April against Crystal Palace.
Wolves edge closer to safety
A battling 1-1 draw against Everton at home last weekend was a respectable result for Wolves without Matheus Cunha. But given Southampton’s plight this season, this would have been earmarked as a vital match in beating the drop.
They didn’t start particularly well and were fortunate not to concede an early goal, but Strand Larsen’s opener, aided by a wonderful delivery from the improving Bellegarde, seemed to calm any nerves.
The goal also seemed to enable Vitor Pereira’s side to keep the ball better, as they saw out the rest of the half more comfortably.
The beginning of the second half couldn’t have started much better for the visitors, through Strand Larsen’s second goal of the game, with the Norwegian stepping up to fill the void left by the suspended Cunha.
They failed to add a third, with Joao Gomes curling a shot inches wide from goal at 2-0. Wolves had to dig deep for the final 15 minutes to preserve their one-goal advantage but managed to pull through.
Their next match is at home to West Ham United on 1 April after the international break.
Club reports
Southampton report | Wolves report
