
Everton extended their unbeaten run to eight Premier League matches in a frantic 1-1 draw with relegation-threatened Wolverhampton Wanderers, who went six points clear of the bottom three.
Marshall Munetsi cancelled out Jack Harrison’s deflected opener as the spoils were shared at Molineux.
The in-form Toffees opened the scoring after 33 minutes as Harrison’s shot nestled in Jose Sa’s bottom-left corner following a deflection off Matt Doherty, end a run of 35 Premier League games without a goal for the winger.
But the hosts were quickly back on level terms as Jean-Ricner Bellegarde set up Munetsi for his first Premier League goal since his January arrival from Reims.
Both teams missed good opportunities to claim all three points in the second half as Wolves stay 17th, while David Moyes’ side climb to 14th.
How the match unfolded
Everton carried the greater threat of the two sides early on. Emmanuel Agbadou blocked Abdoulaye Doucoure’s goalbound strike before the visitors broke the deadlock when Harrison’s shot deflected off Doherty to beat Sa.
However, Wolves responded well and were level just seven minutes later. Bellegarde led the charge during a swift attack and threaded a pass into Munetsi, who neatly slotted a first-time shot past Jordan Pickford.
The hosts introduced Pablo Sarabia in place of the injured Munetsi at half-time, and the substitute almost made an immediate impact when his free-kick narrowly curled the wrong side of the post.
Both sides went close inside the final 20 minutes. Jorgen Strand Larsen called Pickford into action from a tight angle while, moments later, Beto was thwarted by Sa at the other end after Carlos Alcaraz led a rapid counter.
That was the nearest either team came to a winning goal, as they settled for a point apiece.
Wolves inch further clear
After 18th-placed Ipswich Town were beaten by Crystal Palace earlier on Saturday, Wolves knew this was a decent opportunity to put even more distance between themselves and the relegation zone.
But confidence will not have been flowing freely through the veins of Vitor Pereira’s side, who had won just two of their last nine Premier League matches.
They were second-best early on against a resurgent Everton. The Toffees issued a warning when Doucoure’s shot was blocked, though Wolves were unfortunate in the way they fell behind, as Doherty’s ricochet took Harrison’s shot beyond the reach of Sa.
Nevertheless, to their credit, the hosts did not let their heads drop and were soon back on level terms, Munetsi neatly tucking away to become the Premier League’s first goalscorer to hail from Zimbabwe since Benjani 14 years earlier.
It proved bittersweet for the February signing, who was forced off with a knock at half-time. With Matheus Cunha already suspended, Wolves will hope it is nothing too serious.
With two of their next three games coming against sides in the relegation zone in Southampton and Ipswich, Pereira knows his players must take this opportunity to move closer towards retaining their Premier League status.
Moyes maintains momentum
Everton had only won once in their last seven Premier League visits to Molineux, but they arrived full of momentum following their recent resurgence.
It is over eight years since the Toffees enjoyed such a long unbeaten run in the Premier League (nine games between December 2016 and February 2017 under Ronald Koeman), and their confident start was rewarded with the opening goal just past the half-hour mark.
Harrison needed a bit of luck but will not have been complaining as he ended a 13-month wait to find the net in the Premier League.
However, Everton's defence was carved open far too easily for Wolves’ equaliser, with Munetsi taking advantage to put his first-time shot well out of Pickford’s grasp.
The introduction of the lively Alcaraz gave Everton fresh impetus on the counter in the second half, and his good work almost led to Beto putting them back in front.
Moyes’ side may be slightly disappointed not to have taken all three points but, most importantly, their unbeaten run continues.
After hosting West Ham United next weekend, they face Liverpool, Arsenal, Nottingham Forest, Manchester City and Chelsea in their following five games. The Toffees will hope to build as much confidence as possible ahead of that tricky run.
Club reports
Everton report
