
Aston Villa once again dented Arsenal’s Premier League title charge after coming from two goals down to draw 2-2 at the Emirates Stadium.
Gabriel Martinelli and Kai Havertz fired the Gunners into the lead, with the hosts looking set to close the gap to leaders Liverpool, who beat Brentford earlier on Saturday.
But Youri Tielemans reduced the deficit on the hour with a thumping header past David Raya, with Ollie Watkins completing the comeback eight minutes later.
Arsenal thought they had won it when Mikel Merino’s strike deflected off Havertz, with the goal given on-field but overturned by the referee following a VAR review after the ball found its way in off the German’s hand.
Villa’s turnaround sees them jump up to seventh in the table, while Arsenal stay second, but are now six points behind Arne Slot’s side, who also have a game in hand.
How the match unfolded
The Villans survived Arsenal’s early wave of pressure and almost took the lead when Ian Maatsen stung the palms of Raya.
Emiliano Martinez then denied Trossard at the other end, but he was unable to stop Martinelli giving Arsenal the lead, despite his best efforts of clawing the ball away on the line.
The Gunners increased their lead 10 minutes after the restart when Trossard teed up Havertz who turned the ball home from close range.
Tielemans led the Villa comeback after powerfully heading substitute Lucas Digne’s cross home, with Watkins on target against the Gunners once again with a fierce finish.
Havertz thought he had earned a valuable three points when he turned in Merino’s strike, but he was adjudged to have used his hand by the referee following a VAR review.
Merino then struck the post late on, with Trossard seeing his strike from close range brilliantly saved by Martinez as the Gunners were unable to find the breakthrough in stoppage time.
Gunners falter against nemesis
In April 2024, Arsenal saw their title bid dented following a 2-0 defeat to Aston Villa at the Emirates Stadium. They may have seen this season’s Premier League title slip through their grasp against the same opposition on home turf.
The Gunners started the contest strongly, being forward with their possession and deservedly taking the lead through Martinelli. They were also aware of the threat Villa posed on the counter-attack having seen Maatsen and Watkins go close before netting the opening goal.
Arsenal continued to go in search of their second goal, with Havertz heading Martin Odegaard’s free-kick over as Myles Lewis-Skelly’s teasing cross threatened to cause trouble for Villa, but no one in red was there to tuck the ball into the net.
Havertz then grabbed the goal their dominance merited, but the hosts were unable to hold their lead as two goals in eight minutes saw them capitulate in front of their home supporters.
But they had chances to win it late on, with Havertz’s ruled out goal followed up by efforts from Merino, who struck the post, and Trossard’s strike that was saved by Martinez.
Arsenal will be looking to bounce back from the draw next week against Wolverhampton Wanderers.
Villa play the villains once again
Much of the talk surrounding the fixture was Arsenal’s pursuit of leaders Liverpool, but Aston Villa lived up to their name to keep their own European ambitions alive.
They had to come from behind to earn a point. Having posed a threat to Arsenal in recent fixtures against them, Watkins was again troubling the hosts’ defence early on, who were without William Saliba through injury.
Unai Emery’s gameplan seemingly allowed Arsenal to enjoy possession but looked to hit them on the break. Watkins proved a tricky customer to handle for Jurrien Timber and Gabriel Magalhaes, with the England international almost punishing Thomas Partey’s wayward throw-in just two minutes before Martinelli opened the scoring.
Though handed a hammer blow by Havertz’s goal, the visitors continued to be a threat in the final third and grabbed a goal through Tielemans, with Emery’s substitute at half-time, Digne, providing the assist.
Watkins scored in their 2-0 win over the Gunners last year and got himself on the scoresheet again with a fine finish. The Villans could have won it late on when Lamare Bogarde’s strike was spilled by Raya.
Villa will be hopeful of building on their display against West Ham United in their next Premier League encounter next Sunday.
Club reports
Arsenal report | Villa report
