
Kai Havertz scored again and Bukayo Saka starred as Arsenal came from a goal down to overcome a Southampton 3-1 at Emirates Stadium.
Cameron Archer stunned the hosts in the 55th minute, firing a low effort into the bottom corner after being picked out by Mateus Fernandes’ pass.
But the Gunners responded three minutes later through Havertz, who continued his scoring streak at Emirates Stadium with a fierce strike beyond his former team-mate Aaron Ramsdale.
The comeback was complete 10 minutes later when Saka’s teasing delivery to the back-post found substitute Gabriel Martinelli, who scored from a narrow angle.
Saka himself then sealed the triumph with a fine first-time finish, with Arsenal remaining third, behind league leaders Liverpool and Manchester City, while Southampton sit 19th.
How the match unfolded
A lightning start from Arsenal threatened to blow the visitors away early on, but Gabriel Jesus and Havertz were unable to trouble the returning Ramsdale.
Despite the Arsenal onslaught, Southampton registered the first attempt on target, though Kyle Walker-Peters’ speculative effort was no test for David Raya.
Thomas Partey’s shot from distance that was comfortable for Ramsdale ended a frustrating opening period for the hosts.
And against the run of play, Southampton took the lead through substitute Archer. Arsenal claimed Raheem Sterling had been fouled by Fernandes in the build-up, but referee Tony Harrington waved away the appeals and the midfielder set up Archer to cut inside and beat David Raya via a slight deflection.
But Southampton’s joy was short-lived after Flynn Downes’ errant pass was punished by Havertz, who netted his seventh consecutive goal in as many matches on home soil.
Ten minutes later substitute Martinelli’s finished from close range, a goal which was confirmed by VAR after a check for offside, to put Arsenal ahead.
Southampton threatened again, with Taylor Harwood-Bellis rattling the crossbar from a corner, but a heavy touch at the other end from Yukinari Sugawara’s fell kindly into the path of Saka, who sent a right-footed effort into the far corner to wrap up the points and secure a 400th home win for Arsenal in the Premier League.
Arsenal survive Saints scare
Having been run close by Leicester City last weekend, Arsenal almost failed to learn their lesson against another promoted team this time around.
A dominant opening to proceedings saw referee Harrington wave away two penalty appeals, with Sterling going down under the challenge of Jan Bednarek, before Havertz was then hauled down in the box by Walker-Peters, much to the frustration of the home supporters.
But for all of Arsenal’s possession, they created very few chances, often forced to take on efforts from distance that were repelled by Southampton’s stern rearguard.
Archer’s shock opener seemingly spurred Arsenal into life, with their devastating front line finally finding their free-flowing best when Havertz tucked away the leveller, and a triple change from Mikel Arteta on the hour-mark showed his desire to get the game won.
The introduction of Martinelli, debutant Mikel Merino and Leandro Trossard saw the Gunners take control, with the latter continuing his bright start to the season with a well-taken effort. Saka completed the victory, though Arteta will still see room for improvement from his side.
Martin’s calm approach warrants positivity
Russell Martin called for calm ahead of kick-off, with his side only in the early stages of their Premier League return, and there was certainly much improvement compared with Monday’s horror show at AFC Bournemouth.
Southampton were able to navigate a nervy opening period to maintain their hopes of earning a scalp against a title contender, and Archer’s goal was the least the visitors deserved for sticking valiantly at their task, though their good work was undone shortly after.
A criticism of Martin’s side this season has been their risky, possession-based approach, and that proved their downfall when Downes’ sloppy pass was picked off by Saka, who then fed Havertz for Arsenal’s equaliser.
Dibling again proved a bright spark for the visitors, seeing his deflected effort evade the grasp of Raya but go the wrong side of the far post, with the resulting corner then bundled on to the crossbar by Harwood-Bellis.
Martin can take confidence from the showing in north London, but Southampton have now gone 20 Premier League matches without a victory.
Club reports
Arsenal report | Southampton report
What managers said
Russel Martin: "I think the game panned out how we though it might. They had the ball but I loved the way we defended. We asked for more courage on the ball and I thought we showed that. We had some really brilliant moments in the second half. When we scored we'd limited them to few chances."
Match officials
Referee: Tony Harrington. Assistants: Darren Cann, Derek Eaton. Fourth official: Josh Smith. VAR: Michael Salisbury. Assistant VAR: Ian Hussin.
