
A red card for Declan Rice proved key as Arsenal dropped their first points of the Premier League season in a 1-1 draw with Brighton & Hove Albion at the Emirates Stadium.
When Bukayo Saka teed up team-mate Kai Havertz for his second goal of the season in the first half, it looked like Arsenal were well on their way towards a third consecutive victory to start the campaign, with new signings Raheem Sterling and Mikel Merino watching on from the stands.
But after Rice was sent off for two bookable offences early in the second half, the Seagulls – who themselves came into the match with a 100 per cent record – secured a point in the 58th minute when Joao Pedro slotted in from close range.
With a numerical advantage, Brighton pushed hard for a winner in the closing stages but there was no late breakthrough at either end, meaning both sides remain unbeaten.
Arsenal and Brighton each have seven points from a possible nine. Fabian Hurzeler’s side are top of the early standings on goals scored, although Manchester City have the chance to regain their place at the summit if they avoid defeat at West Ham later on Saturday.
How the match unfolded
Mikel Arteta’s side quickly settled and established control of proceedings, with Saka and Martin Odegaard volleying the hosts’ best opportunities straight at Bart Verbruggen in the Brighton goal.
Although the visitors grew into the contest with Kaoru Mitoma firing narrowly wide, they fell behind in the 38th minute as Saka outmuscled Lewis Dunk before feeding Havertz, who lifted the ball over the outrushing Verbruggen and into the net.
However, the Gunners were reduced to 10 men within three minutes of the start of the second half, as Rice received a second yellow card after he was deemed to have prevented Joel Veltman from taking a quick free-kick.
Brighton took swift advantage of the extra man by equalising. Yankuba Minteh raced onto Dunk’s precise through ball and, after David Raya parried the shot, Joao Pedro – who had netted a late winner against Manchester United last week – was there to tuck away the rebound.
Both sides came close to finding the game’s third goal. Verbruggen denied both Havertz and Saka, but it was Brighton who asserted more control as full-time grew closer.
Substitute Yasin Ayari had a big chance to score with the goal gaping, but he shot straight at Raya and the scores finished level.
Gunners' winning streak ends
As well as looking to make it three wins from their opening three games this season, Arsenal were also seeking to extend their Premier League winning streak to nine matches, having finished 2023/24 in flying form.
They looked on track to do just that following a positive start to the match and Havertz’s breakthrough shortly before half-time.
The Germany international was set up by Saka’s clever ball and has now found the net in each of his last four appearances against Brighton.
Saka, meanwhile, is the first Arsenal player since a certain Thierry Henry to provide an assist in each of their first three games of a Premier League season.
However, after the first dismissal of Rice’s 245-match top-flight career, it looked likely that Arsenal would drop points for only the third time in 2024.
Indeed, after Joao Pedro’s prompt equaliser, Arteta would probably have taken a point. His side did threaten a winner on the counter-attack but then had to really dig in for the last 15 minutes, with Ayari’s presentable chance being a nervous moment.
Buoyant Brighton secure share of spoils
London has not been a happy hunting ground for Brighton in recent times. The Seagulls failed to win on any of their seven Premier League visits to the capital last season.
It looked like it could be another torrid trip in the early stages as Arsenal dominated possession before Brighton lost James Milner to injury in the 17th minute in a significant blow.
However, after that stoppage Brighton did seem to settle into a rhythm that was only briefly interrupted by Havertz’s opener. Despite falling behind, Hurzeler’s side did not let their heads drop and would dominate possession for large periods at the Emirates.
The visitors deservedly grabbed their equaliser through Joao Pedro and, given the positive display they produced, they would be justified in counting themselves unfortunate not to be leaving with all three points.
With a home fixture against Ipswich Town to come after the international break, Brighton will be feeling good and confident of extending their impressive start.
Club reports
Arsenal report | Brighton report
