
Bukayo Saka was the matchwinner on his return from injury as Arsenal beat Fulham 2-1 at Emirates Stadium.
Saka had been sidelined since December but marked his comeback with a goal from the bench, and his close-range header ultimately proved decisive.
Arsenal defender Gabriel was forced off through injury after only 16 minutes, but Mikel Merino put the Gunners ahead in the 37th minute, with substitute Saka doubling their advantage with a header shortly after coming on midway through the second half.
Fulham's Rodrigo Muniz – who had earlier headed wide when presented with a glorious opportunity – struck in stoppage time to set up a nervy finish, but Mikel Arteta’s team held firm.
Second-place Arsenal move nine points behind Premier League leaders Liverpool, who face Everton in the Merseyside derby on Wednesday, while Fulham remain eighth, four points off the top four.
How the match unfolded
The Gunners were dealt a blow when Gabriel went down and was substituted with what appeared to be a hamstring injury in the 16th minute, though that did not derail a strong start, and Ethan Nwaneri tested Bernd Leno with a powerful volley.
And Arsenal’s dominance finally told when Nwaneri cut back for Merino, who managed to set himself and then prod a strike beyond Leno, courtesy of a deflection.
Raul Jimenez forced David Raya into action and Jurrien Timber was denied by Leno at the other end before Saka made it 2-0 just seven minutes after coming on, nodding in after Gabriel Martinelli flicked on Merino’s cross.
Muniz squandered a golden chance to get Fulham back in the game as he headed wide in the 81st minute, though a rather scuffed finish from the Brazilian deep in stoppage time meant Arsenal – who also saw a Martinelli goal disallowed for offside – were forced to hold on at the end.
Injury concerns mount for Arteta despite Saka’s return
Arteta would have wanted his side to follow up their hard-fought 1-0 win over Chelsea last time out with a strong performance on Tuesday, and though Arsenal were not at their fluid best, they got the job done.
Still, the biggest boost for Arteta came in the form of Saka. Making his long-awaited return after three months out, the England international eased some of Arsenal’s attacking concerns with that well-taken header – a case of right place, right time. After being ruled out for 101 days, he needed just six minutes and 36 seconds to get on the scoresheet.
Saka’s return is a markedly big relief for Arteta, who has had to do without key attackers following season-ending injuries for Kai Havertz and Gabriel Jesus. Merino has stepped up admirably as a makeshift striker in their absence, but Saka’s comeback adds much-needed firepower and more than a sprinkling of stardust.
However, injury worries continue to mount elsewhere. Gabriel’s early exit may leave Arsenal with just three fit centre-backs ahead of a looming UEFA Champions League semi-final against Real Madrid next week, with Everton next up before then.
With Ben White not risked and Takehiro Tomiyasu and Riccardo Calafiori sidelined, Arteta will be hoping that his injury luck begins to change for the run-in.
Fulham fall flat
Fulham would have been hoping to bounce back following Saturday’s FA Cup defeat to Crystal Palace, and Marco Silva’s team went into this one having not lost in any of their last three league matches against Arsenal, picking up a win and two draws in that run.
The Cottagers had only once had a better run avoiding defeat to the Gunners, going unbeaten in four games between May 2011 and November 2012, but they could not give the best account of themselves on this occasion.
Muniz’s scampered shot made matters interesting late on, but before that he had wasted their best chance when he headed off-target following great work from former Arsenal playmaker Alex Iwobi.
Fulham did improve in the second half, though lacked the necessary sharpness in front of goal, and they have now gone 32 games without a win at Arsenal in the league.
Up next is an even tougher challenge, as Fulham host league leaders Liverpool. However, with European qualification still well within reach, Silva’s side have plenty left to fight for.
Club reports
Arsenal report | Fulham report
Match officials
Referee: John Brooks. Assistants: Simon Bennett, Dan Robathan. Fourth official: Oliver Langford. VAR: Andy Madley. Assistant VAR: Constantine Hatzidakis.
