
Liverpool missed the chance to move 10 points clear at the top of the Premier League after they were held in in an entertaining 2-2 draw by Aston Villa.
Mohamed Salah opened the scoring with his 24th league goal of the season, flashing the ball into the roof of the net as Liverpool ruthlessly punished Andres Garcia’s slack backpass.
Having seen an earlier goal ruled out for offside, Villa scored twice in 10 minutes before the break, with Youri Tielemans and Ollie Watkins on target for the hosts.
But Liverpool showed their powers of recovery once more, with Trent Alexander-Arnold’s deflected strike seeing the points shared, though substitute Darwin Nunez spurned a huge chance late on.
The result edged Liverpool’s advantage over second-placed Arsenal to eight points, having played one match more, while Villa stay in ninth, five points adrift of the top four.
How the match unfolded
Liverpool edged ahead in the 29th minute when Garcia’s poor pass to Emiliano Martinez was gathered by Diogo Jota, who raced into the area and squared for Salah to fire home.
But Villa dragged themselves level after Liverpool failed to deal with Marcus Rashford’s teasing free-kick, with Dominik Szoboszlai’s clearing header met by Tielemans’ first-time volley.
Watkins then headed the hosts ahead in the third minute of first-half stoppage time, guiding Lucas Digne’s cross with a fine header beyond the grasp of Alisson Becker.
Liverpool, however, restored parity just after the hour when Alexander-Arnold’s strike from the edge of the area deflected off Tyrone Mings and over Martinez’s dive.
Arne Slot’s side continued to push for a winner and almost found it through substitute Nunez, but the Uruguayan somehow fired Szoboszlai's square ball over the crossbar, with Donyell Malen’s effort in second-half stoppage time narrowly evading the far post.
Slot left to rue missed opportunities
Liverpool’s title credentials were questioned after their nervy win over Wolverhampton Wanderers last time out, and their inability to finish their chances proved costly at Villa Park.
A quick start to the contest saw Liverpool assert their authority, with Virgil van Dijk firing over after a slick corner routine, before Jota was denied twice in quick succession, first seeing his shot blocked by Mings before heading wide from Alexander-Arnold’s cross.
Curtis Jones then brilliantly slipped in Szoboszlai but saw his strike smothered by Martinez, with their glut of opportunities ruthlessly punished by Villa in the final 10 minutes of the half.  Perhaps a pivotal moment in the contest was sandwiched between Tielemans and Watkins’ goals.
Jota, who had earlier thrashed a volley wide of the mark, was played in behind barely a minute after Villa had levelled. Normally so composed in front of goal, the Liverpool forward uncharacteristically skewed his effort high and wide when faced one-on-one with Martinez.
Liverpool struck the crossbar through Jota before Alexander-Arnold’s equaliser, and despite their best efforts, could not find a way through. Though Slot’s unbeaten away record remains intact, it feels like an opportunity missed.
They will need to find their clinical edge quickly, with a trip to Manchester City at the Etihad Stadium awaiting this Sunday.
A point to build on for the Villans
Having drawn four of their last six Premier League matches, Villa have seen their push for the top four stutter, but their point against the leaders is something positive to build on.
The hosts thought they had got ahead after neat play between Marco Asensio and Rashford saw the ball turned home, but the on-loan Manchester United forward was offside in the build-up inside the Liverpool box.
But the way that Garcia gifted Liverpool have been the story of their season. In the Premier League this term, only Southampton (17) have made more errors leading to goals than Unai Emery’s side (12), but their response to that early setback was emphatic.
After being hit on the counter-attack in their defeat at Anfield earlier in the season, Villa struck Liverpool with two quickfire goals. But despite their advantage going into half-time, were unable to withstand the wave of Liverpool pressure that eventually told in the 61st minute.
Though Liverpool looked the more likely to add to their lead, Villa themselves had two excellent opportunities to snatch three points late on, with Morgan Rogers firing over the crossbar before substitute Malen rifled an effort narrowly wide.
Villa’s quest for a top four berth continues this Saturday against fellow hopefuls Chelsea, who have been inconsistent of late.
