
Aston Villa forged another second-half comeback as they defeated Wolves 3-1 to continue their fine start to the Premier League season.
Gary O’Neil’s men were much the better team throughout the first half at Villa Park, and took the lead through Matheus Cunha.
But Villa, like they did against Everton last week, fought back and completed a superb turnaround.
Ollie Watkins restored parity before Ezri Konsa finished smartly to give Unai Emery’s side the lead in the 88th minute.
In-form Jhon Duran put the result beyond all doubt in injury time as Villa climbed into third place on 12 points, while winless Wolves slumped to the foot of the table.
How the match unfolded
After a scrappy opening 25 minutes, Wolves made the breakthrough when Cunha intercepted a poor pass from Villa defender Diego Carlos before striking a fierce shot that beat Emiliano Martinez and went in via the post.
The visitors only grew in confidence after the goal, with Rayan Ait-Nouri nearly doubling their advantage as he hooked a volley just wide from inside the box.
Wolves goalkeeper Sam Johnstone did not have a single save to make in the opening 45 minutes but Villa began to make inroads after the break, with Yerson Mosquera – who later needed to be taken off on a stretcher due to a head injury – clearing off the line from Watkins.
Villa’s striker was not to be denied a second time, though, as he received a neat pass from Morgan Rodgers before his finish deflected in off Craig Dawson.
The comeback was complete when Konsa flew in to meet Youri Tielemans’ cross, and there was further delight for the home faithful when Duran slotted into an empty net after more good work from Rodgers four minutes into 13 minutes of stoppage time.
Villa roar back to recover from European hangover
It had been an emotional and demanding week for Emery’s men, following a 3-0 victory over Young Boys in their first match in Europe’s top club competition in four decades, and the death of much-loved former player Gary Shaw.
Shaw was honoured before the match but Villa’s mid-week exploits were perhaps a major reason for a listless first-half display, in which they did not register a shot on target and ceded possession to Wolves consistently.
Emery made changes at half-time, introducing Leon Bailey and Ian Maatsen, and the Jamaican proved a big difference down the right, stretching the game and proving to be a real outlet.
Rogers and Watkins combined well for the equaliser, and Emery will be delighted to see Duran back on the scoresheet once again.
Villa are flying high, level on points with Liverpool and Arsenal. They face Wycombe Wanderers in the EFL Cup in midweek, before taking on Ipswich Town on September 29.
Wolves wait for elusive first win
O’Neil wanted his side to channel the frustration from their opening four games into a good performance at Villa Park, and he was rewarded this with an excellent first half from his side.
Despite their poor form heading into the encounter, with just one win in their last 14 league games stretching back to last season, Wolves were well-organised from the moment the match began, not allowing any Villa players much space to manoeuvre in the centre and limiting the attacking runs made from the likes of Watkins and Rogers.
But they struggled to contain the pair after the interval, and played most of the final 20 minutes in their own half, with the likes of Mario Lemina and Andre tiring in midfield, as their resistance was ultimately broken in the closing stages.
Wolves, who will also have concerns over the extent of the damage suffered by Mosquera, will look for their first win of the season from their sixth attempt next week, as they host Liverpool next Saturday.
Club reports
Villa report | Wolves report
Match officials
Referee: Tim Robinson. Assistants: Tim Wood, Steve Meredith. Fourth official: Tom Nield. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Neil Davies.
