
Marco Asensio scored his first Premier League goals as Aston Villa came from behind to beat Chelsea 2-1 on Saturday.
Asensio dragged Villa level just before the hour at Villa Park, with his goal given by the referee after a VAR review deemed the original call of offside was incorrect.
The Spain international – who is on loan from Paris Saint-Germain – completed the turnaround in the 89th minute, when his strike squirmed through Filip Jorgensen’s grasp.
Enzo Fernandez had put Chelsea ahead in the ninth minute, finishing from close range after fine work from Pedro Neto.
Cole Palmer squandered a great chance to put Chelsea back ahead, and the Blues were made to pay as Asensio’s late winner moved them up to seventh, a point and a place behind Enzo Maresca’s team.
How the match unfolded
Chelsea were dealt an early blow when Trevoh Chalobah was forced off injured after just eight minutes, but that frustration turned to jubilation when Neto burst down the right and centred for Fernandez to convert.
Ollie Watkins was twice denied at the other end, first by Jorgensen, then by Marc Cucurella, though Unai Emery decided Marcus Rashford was required to add some fresh impetus from the bench for the second half.
That change paid off in the 57th minute. Rashford latched onto Matty Cash’s cross and nudged the ball back across the six-yard box for Asensio to hook home. The goal was initially disallowed for offside, but the referee ultimately awarded it after a VAR review.
Palmer had a glorious chance to restore Chelsea’s lead when he raced in behind but, after getting the ball stuck under his feet, his effort was blocked by the backtracking Ezri Konsa, paving the way for Asensio to settle the contest in dramatic fashion.
Rashford makes his mark
Asensio took the headlines with his brace, but Rashford was just as integral to Villa’s comeback, playing a key role in both goals.
It has been a difficult season for Rashford, who elected to leave Manchester United after falling out of favour under Ruben Amorim.
He now has a big chance to shine at Villa, though, both domestically and in the UEFA Champions League.
Though he had to settle for a place on the bench initially, Rashford ensured he repaid Emery’s decision to throw him in.
Despite the assistant referee’s original call of offside for Asensio’s equaliser, Rashford timed his run to perfection, capitalising on a lapse in focus from Gusto, who did manage to get a toe to Cash’s delivery but was only able to loop it up.
Rashford still had work to do to send it across for Asensio, however, who likewise showed quick feet to finish, with Reece James failing to clear it off the line.
Rashford crafted two more opportunities, first whipping in a delightful free-kick that caused havoc in Chelsea’s box, before he played in Donyell Malen.
It was Rashford who then drilled in the flat, crisp cross from which Asensio finished, albeit with a helping hand from Jorgensen’s error. Next up for Villa is a trip to Crystal Palace on Tuesday.
Chelsea’s goalkeeper conundrum causes issues
Robert Sanchez’s loss of form has seen Maresca make the change and bring in Jorgensen over recent weeks, with the Dane – signed from Villarreal last year – starting Chelsea’s last three league matches.
For most of this encounter, Jorgensen performed well. He could do little about Villa’s equaliser, but had earlier stood tall to make a decent save from Watkins, and he did extremely well to close down Malen after the Dutchman got the better of Chelsea’s defensive line.
Yet it was from the resulting set-piece that Chelsea failed to clear their lines and, ultimately, their goalkeeper cost them a share of the points. Asensio’s volley was well-struck, with a bit of power behind it, but Jorgensen was positioned well and should have made a comfortable stop.
As it was, he let it slip through his grasp and squirm under his body.
With Chelsea embroiled in a tight battle for the European places, fine margins are going to be crucial.
The transfer window has been and gone, so Maresca will have to work with what he has got. His next task will be to get Jorgensen’s confidence up ahead of Chelsea hosting Southampton on Tuesday.
Club reports
Aston Villa report | Chelsea report
What the managers said
Unai Emery: "In the last match at home [against Liverpool], we were playing more or less good but it wasn't enough. We can get points by playing well but also by trying to avoid mistakes."
Enzo Maresca: "It is a tough one. Because compared to the game against Brighton, the performance and reaction were good. At the moment, we are in a bad run. But we need to stick together and try to win games. I have a feeling we will go again if we win a game. Until that, we need to work hard and try to get the win as soon as possible."
Match officials
Referee: Michael Oliver. Assistants: Stuart Burt, James Mainwaring. Fourth official: Dean Whitestone. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Richard West.
