
Antoine Semenyo and Evanilson helped give AFC Bournemouth their first-ever league win against Manchester City as they beat the defending champions 2-1 at the Vitality Stadium, ending City's 32-match unbeaten run.
The hosts boosted their giant-killing credentials as they secured a third home victory on the bounce, having beaten Arsenal last time out.
Semenyo got Bournemouth off the mark inside 10 minutes as he turned to fire in at the far post from the centre of the box, before Evanilson doubled their lead after half-time.
Josko Gvardiol reduced the arrears with a brilliant header at the back post on 82 minutes to set up a grandstand finish in which Erling Haaland was brilliantly denied by Bournemouth goalkeeper Mark Travers and hit the post with the rebound, but Bournemouth held firm for an historic win.
City drop down to second and fail to take advantage of Arsenal’s earlier falter, while Bournemouth move up to eighth.
How the match unfolded
The home side got off to a flying start as Semenyo tested Ederson from the edge of the box following a high turnover before Justin Kluivert forced a second save from the rebound after two minutes.
It was just seven minutes later that the hosts took a deserved lead. Milos Kerkez made a surging run to the left byline before cutting back to Semenyo who made no mistake to turn and slot into the far post.
Evanilson nearly doubled the lead 40 seconds after the restart, but Ederson got out quickly to smother in the box.
But the Brazilian got his goal after 64 minutes when Kerkez delivered a cross from the left that Evanilson stretches a reaching foot to in the centre of the box to turn home.
Marcus Tavernier hit the post three minutes later with a curling effort before Adam Smith missed an empty net, firing over from the rebound.
Gvardiol put the visitors back in the match after 82 minutes, delivering a powerful header at the back post with City’s second shot on target from Ilkay Gundogan’s cross.
In a frantic stoppage-time spell Haaland had a header from close range saved before his rebound hit the post, while Phil Foden fired just wide in the last minute.
Semenyo sparkles at the Vitality Stadium
Bournemouth are making their home ground a place clubs fear to travel to after defeating Premier League heavyweights Arsenal and defending champions City in back-to-back matches.
Their third home victory in a row was in no small part due to the efforts of Semenyo, their Ghanaian winger who caused all kinds of problems for the visitors.
Semenyo showed his intent early on, entering the box to fire a stinging shot directly at Ederson.
He did score inside 10 minutes, using his strength to hold off the City defenders with his back to goal before turning to fire low into the corner.
Semenyo's pace caused problems for Kyle Walker, whom he raced away from in the 29th minute. He could have been more ruthless, too, checking his run on this occasion instead of taking what looked to be a free shot.
He also had a role in Bournemouth's second goal, threading a through-ball into the path of Kerkez on the left wing, which set the Hungarian free to cross for Evanilson to put the Cherries 2-0 up.
Haaland’s struggles to continue
City superstar Haaland delivered a blank for the visitors and has now scored only once in his last four league outings.
Haaland looked uncomfortable in the first half and appeared to be struggling with an injury. That was not made any better when his shin was caught on the follow-through of a strong tackle just before the break.
The Norwegian's limp will have worried Pep Guardiola, who is already battling a lengthy injury list. Haaland looked inhibited in his movements despite staying on for the duration.
While he delivered City’s first shot on target in the 80th minute, using his strength to get in front of his marker in the box and latch onto the cross, his header was straight at 'keeper Travers.
When the ball dropped to Haaland with the chance to equalise in the 93rd minute, you would usually expect it to end up in the back of the net, but his header once more fell within Travers’ reach.
It was an indication that the usually instinctive striker was not having a great day when he smashed the rebound against the post.
Club reports
AFC Bournemouth report | Man City report
Match officials
Referee: Michael Oliver. Assistants: Simon Long, Craig Taylor. Fourth official: Andrew Kitchen. VAR: Graham Scott. Assistant VAR: Sian Massey-Ellis.
