
Ryan Christie and Justin Kluivert dealt 10-man Arsenal their first Premier League defeat of the season as Bournemouth triumphed 2-0 on Saturday.
William Saliba received a red card on the half-hour mark, giving the hosts a glorious opportunity for an upset at the Vitality Stadium.
And midway through the second half, Bournemouth took that chance, with Christie breaking the deadlock in the 70th minute before Kluivert doubled their advantage from the penalty spot.
That spot-kick ensured Arsenal could not salvage a result to maintain their unbeaten start to the campaign as the Gunners came up short on a frustrating day for Mikel Arteta and suffered their first away defeat in the league in 2024.
Arsenal stay third, missing the chance to go top with Liverpool and Manchester City not playing until Sunday, while Bournemouth move up to 10th after collecting their third win of the season.
How the match unfolded
There was little to excite the fans in a cagey opening, with Gabriel Magalhaes seeing a header blocked at one end before Antoine Semenyo fired over at the other.
That changed when Saliba pulled down Evanilson just inside Arsenal’s half as the forward threatened to run in behind, and saw his yellow card upgraded to a straight red for denying a goalscoring opportunity after a VAR review.
Semenyo had a shot pushed away by David Raya before half-time and ballooned a first-time volley over the bar after the break.
Gabriel Martinelli almost made Bournemouth pay against the run of play, but Kepa Arrizabalaga made a sharp, low stop to keep the scoreline level. Just 95 seconds later, the Cherries’ pressure paid off as Christie rifled a first-time shot into the top corner after he was left unmarked at a corner.
Raya tripped Evanilson in his haste to close the angle in a one-on-one soon after, giving away a spot-kick that Kluivert emphatically fired in to seal what is only Bournemouth’s second Premier League win over Arsenal.
Bournemouth find their clinical edge
Despite a bright start to the season, especially compared to where they were this time last year, Andoni Iraola has expressed some frustration with Bournemouth’s recent results.
The Cherries carry a great attacking threat under the Spaniard, with late comebacks earlier in the season highlighting their prowess, but they have also been guilty of squandering golden chances.
Semenyo was their main outlet from the start and had a hat-trick of opportunities, the best of which saw him volley over unchallenged just after the restart, as Bournemouth struggled to capitalise on their numerical advantage.
Marcus Tavernier also nodded an effort wide as Bournemouth peppered crosses into the box, and it looked like it might not be their day until the substitutes entered the fray.
Kluivert maintained his cool from the spot, but he was also responsible for the first goal, spinning away from his marker on a corner to pick out Christie for his pinpoint finish.
And Iraola will see that as a step in the right direction, especially with more tough matches in Aston Villa and Man City next up.
Arsenal struggle without Saka’s spark
Despite being dealt injury blows over the international break, Arteta would still have been confident of extending their unbeaten run against Bournemouth, but ultimately Bukayo Saka’s absence was harshly felt.
Ben White was fit to feature, with Mikel Merino also welcomed in for his first start, and he almost carved out an opening in the first half, only to drag it wide.
But even with 11 men, the Gunners were missing Saka’s influence, especially after he orchestrated their comeback against Southampton last time out.
Raheem Sterling was switched out to the right in Saka’s place but struggled to impose himself, and was the unlucky player sacrificed so Arteta could add an extra defender in Jakub Kiwior following Saliba’s red card.
Arsenal did not sit behind the ball like they did when going down to 10 men against Man City earlier in the season but still seemed hesitant to commit bodies forward, hindering their progress when they did push through midfield.
Martinelli, who almost missed out himself with a calf problem, came on to give them a more direct influence down the left, while Gabriel Jesus was added to the fray too, but Arsenal looked toothless, which will be a big worry for Arteta with Liverpool their next Premier League opponent. The Spaniard will be holding out hope Saka is back for that encounter.
Club reports
Bournemouth report | Arsenal report
Match officials
Referee: Rob Jones. Assistants: Neil Davies, Simon Long. Fourth official: Tim Robinson. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Harry Lennard.
