
David Brooks scored the only goal as AFC Bournemouth maintained the pressure on the Premier League’s top four with a 1-0 victory over Everton.
The Wales international climbed off the bench to settle matters at the Vitality Stadium with a neat 77th-minute volley.
Despite generating the greater attacking threat, Andoni Iraola’s side had endured a generally frustrating afternoon as they struggled to break down the Toffees, who offered little going the other way.
However, Brooks made the decisive impact, guiding home Milos Kerkez’s cross to extend the Cherries’ unbeaten streak to a club-record eight Premier League games.
Bournemouth sit seventh but move within three points of fourth-place Chelsea, while Everton stay 16th, just two points clear of the relegation zone.
How the match unfolded
The in-form Cherries – who fought back from 2-0 down to win 3-2 in dramatic fashion in the reverse fixture earlier this season – quickly settled into their rhythm, with Jordan Pickford thwarting Dango Ouattara in the eighth minute.
Antoine Semenyo thought he had put Bournemouth in front when he turned in Ryan Christie's cross soon after, but the winger was denied by the offside flag.
Evanilson drilled wide as the hosts continued to threaten the opener, while Pickford stood tall to keep out Justin Kluivert's dinked effort.
With the introductions of Nathan Patterson and teenager Harrison Armstrong, Everton looked more dangerous after the break, though it was Bournemouth who seemed the more likely to break the deadlock, with Semenyo testing Pickford from 20 yards.
And the Toffees’ resolve was finally broken when Kerkez sat an inviting cross to the far post and Brooks volleyed home.
Abdoulaye Doucoure went close to equalising when he volleyed narrowly wide in the 85th minute, but Everton succumbed to a second straight defeat.
Buoyant Bournemouth
Never before had Bournemouth gone eight successive Premier League games without tasting defeat, but now they have, and Saturday’s win was richly deserved.
The Cherries looked confident right from the kick-off, and it took a couple of smart saves from Pickford to keep them at bay.
Bournemouth have scored a league-high 10 goals in the final five minutes of Premier League matches this season, but they did not need to wait that long here.
A long ball down the line was flicked on to release the onrushing Kerkez, who had the presence of mind to pick out Brooks at the far post. He coolly did the rest to finally get the breakthrough, with Vitalii Mykolenko in no man’s land in the Everton defence.
It marks just the start to 2025 the Cherries were looking for and, though Chelsea, Newcastle United, Nottingham Forest and Liverpool provide their next four Premier League opponents, they will certainly head into those games with their tails up.
Another bleak trip south for Everton
Without a win in four league games ahead of this encounter, Everton will not have exactly been relishing the prospect of a trip to the Vitality Stadium – a ground on which they had never previously triumphed in the Premier League.
Sean Dyche’s side had Pickford to thank for keeping the scoreline at 0-0 during the first half, and for large periods of the second.
The Toffees – who lost striker Armando Broja to injury midway through the first half – certainly looked better from an attacking perspective after the break, yet nevertheless they finished the game without registering a shot on target.
That lacking of a cutting edge meant they were vulnerable at the other end and Brooks’ well-taken goal ensured they will head back up to Merseyside empty handed.
Things do not get any easier for Everton either. Aston Villa, Tottenham and Brighton provide the opposition for their next three Premier League games, while they anxiously look over their shoulder, with 18th-place Ipswich Town just two points adrift. Indeed, the Toffees could even find themselves in the bottom three by the end of this matchweek, should other results go against them.
Club reports
Bournemouth report | Everton report
