
Kevin Schade’s first career hat-trick ensured Brentford remained unbeaten at home as they saw off Leicester City 4-1 at the Gtech Community Stadium.
After Ruud van Nistelrooy was announced as the new manager on Friday, first-team coach Ben Dawson led a poor Leicester display as Thomas Frank’s men delivered another goalfest.
Facundo Buonanotte gave Leicester fans hope of a new beginning as he put the visitors ahead after 21 minutes, but Yoane Wissa ensured their joy did not last for long, equalising four minutes later.
Schade then put the hosts ahead soon after, before grabbing his second just before half-time and completing his hat-trick before the hour to put the Bees in control.
The result moves Brentford up to seventh, just two points off the Champions League spots. Leicester are 16th on ten points, one away from the relegation zone.
How the match unfolded
Brentford showed early threat five minutes in when Mads Hermansen was forced into a fantastic fingertip save from Schade, who flicked a looping header goalwards from the centre of the box.
The hosts looked in control in the opening exchanges, but it was Leicester who snatched the lead in the 21st minute. Jamie Vardy was played in behind to the left of the box before slipping the ball back into the centre, where Buonanotte was primed to sidefoot home.
But Brentford were back on level terms four minutes later in near-identical fashion. Schade found himself in behind on the right and sent a low cross into the box, where Wissa could tap into an empty net at the back post.
The hosts went one better within another four minutes as Bryan Mbeumo’s deflected low cross fell to Schade on the left of the box, who powered home at the near post.
Schade then doubled his tally on the stroke of half-time as Mikkel Damsgaard threaded a through-ball into the path of the German on the left of the box, who poked home from a tight angle.
Damsgaard was unlucky not to find the net himself, as his stooping header deflected Mbeumo’s cross off the right just over the bar after the break.
It was Schade who secured his hat-trick on 59 minutes as he raced down the centre onto Nathan Collins’ perfectly weighted ball in behind before coolly slotting past Hermansen.
Schade masterclass brings more home delight
Schade had not scored a Premier League goal since April before his treble here, and his influence didn’t end there.
The Brentford forward was pivotal in the hosts’ opener as he raced down the left to beat the Leicester defence and find Wissa at the far post to tap home with ease.
Boosted by his goal contribution, Schade’s confidence grew. As Mbeumo’s cross found him in space to the left of the box, the German showed great composure to take a touch before driving home at the near post to put his side ahead.
His runs in behind brought further reward for his second and third. Latching onto Damsgaard’s pass deep into first-half stoppage time, Schade found himself at a seemingly impossible angle, nearly touching the byline, but somehow poked home at the near post.
On 59 minutes, he was calmness personified to claim the match ball. Striding onto a curled ball from Collins, he beat Wout Faes to the box before stroking home past a stranded Hermansen.
While it was a long time coming, Schade helped Brentford’s goal glut in style.
New Foxes formation won’t provide immediate answers for new manager
The visitors switched to three at the back at the Gtech Community Stadium but found themselves vulnerable in defence.
The first warning sign came after 16 minutes when Damsgaard was able to penetrate the box, having been threaded in behind after wing-back James Justin had ventured forward.
While nothing came of that attack, Schade’s escapade down the left nine minutes later brought greater reward. The hosts once again benefitted from the space in between the wing-back and outside centre-back as the German burst in behind with room to pick his cross.
It was weighted to perfection and on a plate for Wissa at the back post. The visitors also lost Caleb Okoli to injury after he picked up a knock trying to defend the goal.
The second goal came on the counter as Damsgaard surged down the space left behind the attacking wing-back once more. The recovering Leicester defenders found themselves grouped together in the centre as Brentford could ping the ball from Mbeumo to Schade and finish.
A further two goals prove there is work to do for Van Nistelrooy as a formation change may not provide the quick fix he might desire.
Club reports
Brentford report | Leicester report
Match Officials 
Referee: Michael Oliver. Assistants: Stuart Burt, James Mainwaring. Fourth official: Darren Bond. VAR: Stuart Attwell. Assistant VAR: Wade Smith.
