
Jake O’Brien rescued a point for Everton as they pegged back Brentford to a 1-1 draw at the Gtech Community Stadium.
The defender’s first Everton goal extended the Toffees’ unbeaten streak to seven Premier League matches, while denying their hosts a third straight top-flight win.
Yoane Wissa headed the Bees in front in first-half stoppage time with his 13th league goal of the season.
But Everton – for whom the in-form Beto saw two golden opportunities go begging prior to Wissa’s opener – ensured a share of the spoils when O’Brien nodded in Vitalii Mykolenko’s 77th-minute cross.
Beto squandered another gilt-edged chance late on, as Everton dropped a place to 15th despite the point.
Thomas Frank’s Brentford remain 11th, though they are now without a win in six top-flight home matches.
How the match unfolded
Brentford demonstrated the greater attacking intent early on with Keane Lewis-Potter drilling narrowly wide from distance, but having weathered the storm, Everton saw two great chances to take the lead go begging.
The in-form Beto raced through on goal twice in the space of three minutes – the first following an untimely Ethan Pinnock slip – but he was denied by the alert Mark Flekken on both occasions.
Brentford made their goalkeeper’s good work count on the stroke of half-time. Everton failed to deal with a long throw and Wissa nodded home after Bryan Mbeumo’s initial header ricocheted off the crossbar.
After a period of Everton pressure, Wissa thought he had doubled Brentford’s lead when he tucked home in the 69th minute, only for his joy to be cut short by the offside flag.
Everton capitalised on that let-off by clawing themselves level 13 minutes from time, as a well-worked move culminated in O’Brien losing his marker to head home Mykolenko’s cross.
They almost snatched all three points but Beto, from a tight angle, was thwarted by Flekken once more.
Resurgent Toffees keep rolling
David Moyes has enjoyed a fine start to his second Everton tenure, and will no doubt be pleased with the resilience shown by his under-manned side on Wednesday.
With key midfielder Abdoulaye Doucoure absent, Everton did not have many options to call on from the bench, but their equaliser came from a player who has been rejuvenated under Moyes.
O’Brien had not got much of a look-in under Sean Dyche, but has been a regular – albeit not playing in his natural position – under Moyes, and the Republic of Ireland international came up big when it mattered.
Everton did ride their luck early on, though Beto – fresh from scoring in four successive matches – will have been disappointed not to continue that impressive streak.
The Brazilian seemed to be caught in two minds with his first opportunity, while Flekken’s smart reflex save denied him the second time. His third and final chance was another good opening, albeit he could have perhaps passed to Carlos Alcaraz instead.
Despite falling behind, though, the visitors never appeared out of the match, demonstrating intent when Alcaraz flashed a shot just wide from the edge of the box.
This newfound belief helped them get back on level terms, with O’Brien choosing an ideal time to grab his first Premier League goal.
Now 15 points clear of the relegation zone – and with Wolverhampton Wanderers and West Ham United next up – Everton will have two opportunities to put even more distance between themselves and danger.
Bees lose their sting at home
The Gtech Community Stadium was a fortress for Brentford earlier this season.
Although, that has not been the case so much in recent times. The Bees have not won at home in the league since early December, and they are yet to register a clean sheet on home soil in the top flight this campaign.
Frank’s team did seem to be heading towards all three points, though, and will have been especially buoyed when Beto spurned those huge chances before Wissa’s opener, for which the forward demonstrated wonderful determination to pounce on the loose ball and head home.
However, an inability to increase their advantage eventually proved costly, and Everton capitalised, having built up a steady head of steam through the second half.
Although disappointed not to get that home win on the board, Frank will be encouraging his players to stay upbeat ahead of a difficult run of fixtures, starting at home against Aston Villa on 8 March.
Match officials
Referee: Simon Hooper. Assistants: Adrian Holmes, Simon Long. Fourth official: John Busby. VAR: Alex Chilowicz. Assistant VAR: Steve Meredith.
