
Ollie Watkins proved the difference as Aston Villa got back to winning ways with a 1-0 victory over Brentford at the Gtech Community Stadium.
The striker came back to haunt his former club in the Premier League, beating Mark Flekken at his near post to score the winner early in the second half.
Morgan Rogers thought he had doubled their lead just over a minute later, firing past the goalkeeper under pressure, only to be denied by the offside flag.
Brentford pushed for an equaliser, with Keane Lewis-Potter striking a post, but they could not stop Villa from completing a first Premier League double over them as they recovered from their 4-1 loss at Crystal Palace last time out.
Villa move up three places to seventh, just two points behind fourth-placed Manchester City, while Brentford are 12th on 38 points as their winless home run was extended to seven matches.
How the match unfolded
Brentford were unable to take advantage of Villa’s shaky start and allowed the visitors to grow into the game, Tyrone Mings poking a free-kick straight at Flekken.
Youri Tielemans cut open Brentford’s defence shortly after, bursting into the box, but Flekken parried his sliced effort. From the resulting corner, Ethan Pinnock almost scored an own goal, turning Tielemans’ nod down onto the roof of the net.
Villa raced out of the blocks in the second half, Watkins netting against his former side for the sixth time after cutting inside and curling a shot through Flekken’s legs with the help of a slight deflection.
Under a minute later, the visitors thought they had doubled their lead. Watkins turned provider to pull it back for Rogers, who fired it past Flekken, but the goal was ruled out by the referee following a VAR review as the former had strayed offside.
Brentford pushed after that with Lewis-Potter coming closest, but his low strike from the edge of the box thumped the foot of the near post.
Brentford’s home woes go on
Brentford had turned the Gtech into something of a fortress at the beginning of the season, winning seven of their first eight matches at home to start the campaign, but that is a long-distant memory now.
Thomas Frank would have pinpointed this as a perfect chance to change their fortunes and continue their outside push for a European place, against a Villa side struggling on the road, but it was not to be.
Their usual attacking style was nowhere to be found in the early stages on Saturday, with Lewis-Potter’s speculative long-range strike their only shot of note before the break as they were forced to sit back and defend.
It took going behind for Brentford to come to life in the second half, with Lewis-Potter, in particular, proving a threat from the wing. Bryan Mbeumo and Yoane Wissa eventually grew into the game, with the trio linking up into the build-up of Lewis-Potter hitting the woodwork.
Robin Olsen denied Kevin Schade at his near post late on, and though they pushed until the final whistle, Brentford could find no way through. There were positives for Frank, though he may be glad to go on the road again, with a trip to Bournemouth up next.
Villa shut up shop
Villa had looked like they were slipping out of the race for a top-four finish, but considering the tight nature in the top half, they have kept themselves firmly in the fight with a win here.
Their recent Premier League form has caused some worry, and they have struggled in the competition after playing in the Champions League. They also had to do without Emiliano Martinez, who was missing through injury.
That form looked set to continue as Villa made a nervy start. Tielemans dug John McGinn out of a hole after he lost the ball in the box early on before Mings made a double block, though Schade had strayed offside.
Unai Emery’s side finished the half strongly, and his half-time team talk lit a fire under the team, with Watkins taking just four minutes to clinically take his first chance of the match.
They had to dig in defensively, with Axel Disasi throwing his body on the line as the Bees’ pressure increased. Watkins arguably should have made sure of the points late on, racing into a one-v-one with Flekken, but his tame chip was well held by the goalkeeper.
Villa face Club Brugge in the second leg of their Champions League tie in midweek, but are not in Premier League action again until 2 April when they travel to Brighton & Hove Albion.
Club reports
Brentford report | Villa report
