
Joao Pedro’s late, late penalty earned Brighton & Hove Albion a fourth straight Premier League win and their first over Fulham in the competition, sending the Seagulls up to sixth in the race for Europe.
Raul Jimenez broke the deadlock for Fulham just past the half-hour mark as he fired home from close range after bringing down a lovely Alex Iwobi cross.
But Brighton responded brilliantly within six minutes as Jan Paul van Hecke’s powerful header brought the Seagulls level.
Kaoru Mitoma and Simon Adingra both had second-half goals disallowed for offside, and it looked like Brighton’s search for a winner would be in vain, but Joao Pedro’s spot-kick in the eighth minute of stoppage time earned a crucial three points.
It remains incredibly congested in the top half of the table as Brighton move up to sixth, level on points with Chelsea.
Fulham stay in ninth, one point behind AFC Bournemouth.
How the match unfolded
Both sides made a cautious start, but the game came to life in the 35th minute. Iwobi’s surge opened space for a pinpoint cross to the far post for Jimenez, who cushioned it off his chest before sliding a shot past Bart Verbruggen from close range.
Fulham’s excitement was short-lived as Brighton hit back quickly. Yasin Ayari’s floated cross from a set-piece found an unmarked Van Hecke, who carefully guided his header out of Bernd Leno’s reach and in off the far post.
Mitoma thought he had restored Brighton’s lead in the 55th minute, tapping Yankuba Minteh’s low cross into an empty net, but the offside flag was up, with the on-field decision standing following a VAR review.
Adingra thought the same 87 minutes in, controlling Adam Webster’s long ball to bend it past Leno, but again the flag went up.
It did not prove costly though, as Brighton were awarded a stoppage-time penalty after Harrison Reed clipped Joao Pedro in the box, and the Brazilian calmly converted.
Brighton steal a late victory
Since their bruising 7-0 defeat to Nottingham Forest at the start of February, Brighton have barely put a foot wrong. The Seagulls have soared back into form with six wins from six in all competitions, including four on the trot in the Premier League.
The European dream remains well and truly alive for Fabian Hurzeler’s side, their hopes reignited after a demoralising stumble following a strong start to the year. The defeat by Forest, and one to Everton a week prior, had threatened to derail them, but they have bounced back.
On Saturday, the Seagulls showed their value with a bright start but saw their wings clipped as Jimenez found the opener against the run of play.
Hurzeler’s side were once again called to respond, and they did so in style, dominating the entirety of the second half and probing for a winner, though they nearly went unrewarded.
They struggled to create chances of note outside of the disallowed goals, but their efforts finally bore fruit in the dying minutes as Joao Pedro’s penalty stole the win with the last kick of the game.
Brighton could again come up against Fulham in the FA Cup down the line should both sides progress, but they now turn their attention to a tough tie away to Manchester City next weekend.
Jimenez heroics not enough
Fulham’s confidence was given a timely lift by their dramatic penalty shootout win over Manchester United in the FA Cup last weekend. Marco Silva’s side remain in the hunt for European football, though a crowded table has made the task all the more difficult.
And although their push for Europe has hit a slight snag with this result, Jimenez was once again something of a talisman for the Cottagers as he continued his outstanding run.
All 10 of the Mexican international’s Premier League goals this season have been significant, either putting Fulham ahead or drawing them level in the match. He was again the spark, his goal breaking the deadlock 35 minutes in.
Emile Smith Rowe had already squandered a good chance prior to that, failing to connect cleanly with his strike, although Jimenez ensured their scoring streak on the road continued.
Fulham continue to pose a significant threat on the road, which will undoubtedly come in handy with a key tie at Arsenal on the horizon. They struggled to impose themselves in the second half though, before a clumsy challenge ensured they walked away empty-handed.
For now, Silva’s side return to Craven Cottage, where they host Tottenham Hotspur next weekend.
Club reports
Brighton report | Fulham report
Match officials 
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Tim Wood, Wade Smith. Fourth official: Andy Davies. VAR: Craig Pawson. Assistant VAR: Richard West.
