
Chelsea returned to the top four of the Premier League table as Enzo Fernandez's header sealed a 1-0 London derby win over Tottenham Hotspur.
Fernandez powered home following an outstanding cross from the returning Cole Palmer in the 50th minute, as the Blues earned a deserved three points at Stamford Bridge.
Moises Caicedo and Pape Sarr had second-half strikes disallowed, but Spurs could have few complaints about the result, having earlier relied on Guglielmo Vicario to keep Chelsea out.
After several of their rivals for UEFA Champions League qualification won in midweek, the victory moves Chelsea to fourth place on 52 points, back above Manchester City and Newcastle United.
Now winless in four league matches, Ange Postecoglou's Spurs stay 14th with 34 points.
How the match unfolded
Nicolas Jackson could have put Chelsea ahead in the first minute, but Vicario denied him with his legs before Micky van de Ven turned the loose ball against his own post.
Spurs briefly improved late in the first half as Son Heung-min worked Robert Sanchez, but Vicario kept them level with a stunning reflex save from Jadon Sancho's attempt.
Vicario denied Palmer early in the second half, but that was a momentary reprieve for Spurs as Palmer drifted wide to cross, and Fernandez arrived unmarked to head home.
Chelsea thought they had a second goal when Caicedo sent a thumping volley past Vicario, but the decision to award the goal was overturned following a VAR review, with Levi Colwill found to be offside in the build-up.
Another VAR intervention went the other way, in favour of Caicedo, with 20 minutes to play. Spurs substitute Sarr rifled home from 25 yards out, but after a pitchside review, referee Craig Pawson ruled he had fouled the Chelsea midfielder.
Spurs' best chance to level fell to Son late on, but he failed to beat Sanchez on the slide as Chelsea successfully navigated 12 minutes of second-half stoppage time.
Palmer instigates Chelsea improvement
Chelsea went into the international break with three defeats in five Premier League games, and midweek wins for Nottingham Forest, Man City, Newcastle and Aston Villa did nothing to ease the pressure on the Blues.
Enzo Maresca was boosted by the returns of Jackson and Palmer, but the latter was slow to get going in the first half, with his only major involvement coming when his inviting ball across the six-yard box was scrambled clear by Destiny Udogie.
However, Palmer played a crucial role when Chelsea finally made their dominance count after half-time. Seconds after his 20-yard drive was parried by Vicario, Palmer received a simple pass from Marc Cucurella near the touchline and swung a magnificent cross onto the head of Fernandez, who could not miss.
That assist was Palmer's first Premier League goal involvement since scoring in a 2-2 draw with Bournemouth in mid-January, eight games ago.
Palmer's drop in form certainly did not help Chelsea's European aspirations, but after using the international break to recover and recharge, he will hope to get back to his best in the run-in.
Another London derby, at Brentford, is up next on Sunday.
Spurs struggle again at Stamford Bridge
Spurs also received a major boost on the injury front. Having struggled with a hamstring injury, Van de Ven made his first Premier League start since the reverse fixture against Chelsea, a dramatic 4-3 defeat in December.
Postecoglou has repeatedly talked up the importance of having first-choice centre-backs Van de Ven and Cristian Romero available, but they had little to no protection from their team-mates here.
Spurs seemed to lack physicality in midfield as Fernandez and Caicedo bossed proceedings, and only the reflexes of Vicario kept them level by the break.
Things were not much better in attack, where former Chelsea striker Dominic Solanke was isolated and failed to attempt a single shot. James Maddison also struggled to have an influence and was withdrawn late on.
It all amounted to another disjointed showing for Spurs, who have collected just 10 points since the turn of the year – only the bottom three teams have earned fewer.
With Postecoglou forced to field more questions over his future this week, the pressure is firmly on. Spurs host Southampton on Sunday, before facing Eintracht Frankfurt in the first leg of a UEFA Europa League tie that could define their season.
Club reports
Chelsea report | Spurs report
Match officials 
Referee: Craig Pawson. Assistants: Stuart Burt, James Mainwaring. Fourth official: Robert Jones. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Craig Taylor.
