
Cole Palmer led Chelsea up to fifth in the Premier League with his seventh top-flight goal of the season as the Blues edged past Newcastle United 2-1 at Stamford Bridge.
Palmer, who had an early strike disallowed for offside, was integral to both of Chelsea’s goals on Sunday, playing a stunning pass in the build-up to Nicolas Jackson’s 18th-minute opener.
Alexander Isak drew the visitors level with his first goal since returning from a toe injury, tucking home a cross from former Chelsea player Lewis Hall.
But Palmer got his name on the scoresheet early in the second half, with his effort squeezing in at Nick Pope’s near post and Newcastle were unable to find a response.
Chelsea’s triumph moves them five points ahead of 12th-placed Newcastle.
How the match unfolded
The Blues thought they had made an ideal start when Palmer was slipped through by Jackson before he finished past Pope, only for the goal to be overturned for offside after a VAR review.
But Palmer played a key role in the opener, sweeping an inch-perfect long-range pass into the path of Pedro Neto, who squared for Jackson to tap home.
Newcastle, however, responded brightly and were rewarded when Isak nudged in from Hall’s inviting delivery, with the goal given after VAR confirmed the Swede had not strayed into an offside position.
Yet Palmer restored Chelsea’s advantage 75 seconds after the restart, firing the ball in low from a cute angle, before Neto then struck a post with a header soon after.
Chelsea seemed set to have the chance to seal the result with a third when Christopher Nkunku was hauled down by Dan Burn in the box late on, but the on-field decision of a penalty was overturned after another VAR review. 
Newcastle feel Gordon's absence
Eddie Howe’s side are now without a win in five league matches, and the task of halting that run was not helped by Anthony Gordon missing the trip after suffering a groin injury.
Miguel Almiron was the man tasked with filling Gordon’s shoes in attack, joining Isak and Harvey Barnes in Newcastle’s front three.
And leading up to the Magpies’ equaliser, it was Almiron who looked most likely to threaten Robert Sanchez’s goal, curling an effort narrowly wide of the far post before forcing the Chelsea goalkeeper into a save five minutes before Isak struck.
Despite being second best for much of the second half, Newcastle still had their chances. Isak was twice denied when his header was blocked by Reece James, before rounding Sanchez, only to see the retreating Moises Caicedo make a timely interception.
But the Magpies search for a league win to snap this poor run rolls on. If Gordon had been in their ranks, then maybe the outcome would have been different.
James passes Maresca test
Ahead of kick-off, Chelsea head coach Enzo Maresca expressed that he “wanted more” from captain James, who is only just back from injury, and he responded positively to his manager’s criticism despite a slow start on Sunday.
James, operating on the opposite flank at left-back, was arguably at fault for Isak’s leveller after the Newcastle striker ghosted in front of him.
But James bounced back well, producing several key interceptions after the break, including denying Isak by blocking his goal-bound effort and setting his side up on a counter-attack that almost led to a goal at the other end.
Chelsea could have been out of site when Mykhailo Mudryk was set up by Palmer, but he could only find the hands of Pope, though with Newcastle pushing for an equaliser, James came to the Blues’ rescue to brilliantly head over Joe Willock’s cross in the dying stages.
James’ return to form is a welcome boost for Maresca and the full-back will want to continue the upward trajectory as Chelsea aim to keep up their strong start.
Club reports
Chelsea report | Newcastle report
Match officials
Referee: Simon Hooper. Assistants: Adrian Holmes, Simon Long. Fourth official: Rob Jones. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Ian Hussin.
