
Diogo Jota’s early goal was enough to secure Liverpool a 1-0 away victory over Crystal Palace in the Premier League and ensure that they go into the international break top of the table. 
The Portuguese forward netted his first league goal since the opening weekend after just nine minutes at Selhurst Park, darting in behind to pick out the bottom-left corner.
It could have been a different story, though, as Palace attacker Eddie Nketiah had a goal ruled out for offside inside the first minute.
The Eagles pushed hard for an equaliser but could not breach Liverpool’s backline despite generating a late flurry of chances.
A sixth victory from seven matches moves Arne Slot’s men four points clear at the top of the table before title rivals Arsenal and Manchester City play later on Saturday, while Palace remain without a win in 18th.
How the match unfolded
Just 22 seconds were on the clock when Palace had the ball in the net after Nketiah latched onto Ismaila Sarr’s low cross to dink Alisson, but he had strayed offside.
And they soon found themselves behind, as Jota darted in front of Trevoh Chalobah to poke Cody Gakpo’s cross past Dean Henderson, marking his 100th Liverpool start with a goal.
Henderson then tipped Trent Alexander-Arnold’s low drive wide before Palace almost equalised on the stroke of half-time, Alisson getting down sharply to push Sarr’s low drive away.
Mohamed Salah looked set to get a customary away goal this season, peeling off his marker to chest down Virgil van Dijk’s floated pass, but Henderson rushed off his line to smother his close-range effort.
Palace soon asserted themselves into the match though, with Alisson having to make a trio of saves in quick succession to keep out Nketiah, Eberechi Eze and Chalobah to protect the clean sheet.
The Brazilian was forced off through injury in the final 15 minutes, but Will Hughes and Eze could not beat replacement Vitezslav Jaros, on for his debut, with their long-range efforts.
The wait goes on
It was always going to be a tough task for Palace if they wanted to get their first win of the Premier League season against high-flying Liverpool, though you could not fault the fans for having hope after beating the Reds at Anfield towards the end of last season.
The celebrations may have been cut short after Nketiah’s very early disallowed goal, but the moment showed Palace were capable of causing their in-form visitors problems.
However, as Liverpool dominated possession in the first half, the hosts were stifled, struggling to make any sort of impact in the final third.
But Palace looked more settled after a double change in the second half saw them switch formation, with the introduction of Jean-Philippe Mateta also providing them with another focal point up top.
It is no surprise that their best chances came after Oliver Glasner’s tactical switch, but even with the small boost given by Alisson’s departure, they still could not find a way past Jaros, who had a calm presence after his unexpected introduction.
Palace remain in the relegation zone heading into the international break, but their manager will already be thinking ahead to a pivotal trip to Nottingham Forest as they await their first three points.
A steady presence
Seven games into the Premier League season and it looks like Slot has seamlessly settled into life on Merseyside, having only had one minor blip so far in a defeat to Forest at Anfield.
Despite the early scare from Nketiah, Liverpool showed their trademark calm under the Dutchman as they soon took control of the contest.
Van Dijk was assured, easily reading Palace’s attempts to play in behind to sweep the danger away, while Ibrahima Konate took the more proactive approach on the press as part of an impressive defence that has still only conceded two goals.
It was Ryan Gravenberch who once again dictated play for the Reds though, orchestrating attacks from midfield and giving Palace a headache as he linked everything together.
With big matches ahead, one worry for Slot will be the muscle injury to Alisson, who cut a frustrated figure when he threw his gloves to the floor as he was forced off late in the game.
Slot may not believe his team are ready to be included among the title contenders just yet, but they have laid down some impressive groundwork to go into the international break top of the league.
When top-flight football resumes, the Reds have an enormous double-header against Chelsea and Arsenal which could provide an indication as to how much staying power they are likely to have.
Club reports
Crystal Palace report | Liverpool report
Match officials
Referee: Simon Hooper. Assistants: Adrian Holmes, Simon Long. Fourth official: Leigh Doughty. VAR: David Coote. Assistant VAR: Natalie Aspinall.
