
Jean-Philippe Mateta’s brace, including a stoppage-time penalty, denied Leicester City their first win since returning to the Premier League as Crystal Palace came from behind to draw 2-2.
Jamie Vardy gave Leicester a first-half lead with a neat finish and just seconds after the restart, Stephy Mavididi capitalised on some poor defending to double the away side’s lead.
Mateta dragged Palace back into the match with his first goal moments later, but Leicester looked set to hang on despite being put under heavy pressure in the second half.
However, Conor Coady fouled Ismaila Sarr in the box and Mateta coolly dispatched his penalty kick to deny Steve Cooper a first league victory as Leicester manager.
How the match unfolded
Jordan Ayew came close to haunting his old side in the opening minutes but squandered a great opportunity, shanking a volley over the bar from close range after good work from Wilfred Ndidi.
Palace’s first real opportunity nearly resulted in them going in front, but Wout Faes made a heroic block to deny Mateta.
Moments later, Leicester took the lead, with Vardy knocking it past Dean Henderson to slot in his second goal of the season.
Selhurst Park was then stunned into silence just 23 seconds into the second half as Leicester doubled their lead – Mavididi took advantage of some slack defending to finish from close range.
Palace found a way back into the encounter after Mateta applied a simple finish to Tyrick Mitchell’s excellent cross.
Initially the goal was disallowed for offside, but after a VAR review the goal was awarded.
Coady’s moment of carelessness in fouling Sarr denied the Foxes a point, as Mateta rescued Palace at the death with a confident penalty kick.
Palace still without elusive win
Oliver Glasner may have pinpointed this fixture as the perfect time to kickstart Palace’s campaign, with the transfer window closed and the future of the likes of Marc Guehi resolved, but it was not to be.
Eddie Nketiah and Maxence Lacroix made their debuts, with both having solid outings, though Nketiah will be disappointed not to have got on the scoresheet in the second half after dragging a fizzing effort just wide.
Eze was his usual buzzy self, and at the heart of most Palace attacks, while Mateta showed his true quality with his two finishes to ensure his side would not lose three of their first four league matches.
There were defensive errors though especially in the first half, with the likes of Guehi guilty of some lapses in concentration, while Nathaniel Clyne’s botched clearance gifted Leicester their second goal right at the start of the second half.
Glasner’s side must now regroup in time for next Saturday, when they face Manchester United at home.
Ndidi shines but Foxes leave disappointed
Cooper will be pleased with certain aspects of his side’s performance, albeit not with the result, with Ndidi being at the centre of many positive aspects.
The Nigerian picked up two assists and seemed to enjoy the extra freedom he was given in a slightly more advanced role ahead of the tenacious duo of Harry Winks and Oliver Skipp.
He showed great maturity in passing to Mavididi, who was unmarked for the second goal, while his attacking runs stretched Palace’s backline.
The Foxes will still be disappointed at not walking away with all three points, having been two goals up, but spending most of the latter stages in their own half was always going to lead to Palace creating opportunities.
And so it proved, with substitute Coady paying the price for a poor challenge so late on in this encounter, but Cooper will be hoping they can bounce back against Everton next weekend.
Both sides are still searching for their first win after the four opening matches, with Leicester and Palace just outside the relegation zone.
Club reports
Palace report | Leicester report
Match officialsReferee: Tony Harrington. Assistants: Marc Perry, Derek Eaton. Fourth official: Simon Hooper. VAR: Andy Madley. Assistant VAR: Mark Scholes.
