
Jean-Philippe Mateta scored a late equaliser for Crystal Palace, as Chelsea were held to a 1-1 draw that extended their Premier League winless run to four matches.
Cole Palmer fired the visitors ahead after 14 minutes at Selhurst Park, converting his 13th league goal of the season after a brilliant run by Jadon Sancho.
Enzo Maresca's side had plenty of chances to increase their lead and secure a first league victory since 15 December but Nicolas Jackson and Josh Acheampong, among others, were guilty of spurning good opportunities.
Mateta had been Palace's chief threat throughout and he ultimately drew his side level when converting from Eberechi Eze's pass eight minutes from time.
The draw moves Palace six points clear of the bottom three in 15th place, while Chelsea stay fourth, just one point ahead of in-form Newcastle United, who won 2-1 at Tottenham Hotspur earlier in the day.
How the match unfolded
Chelsea dominated the first half, first going close when Sancho volleyed over on three minutes.
The winger was heavily involved when the breakthrough did come, collecting a cross-field ball and sliding in Palmer to drive home the opener.
Jackson and Acheampong then went close, while a brief Palace flurry led to a Mateta effort that was deflected wide.
The Blues looked set to see out an important away win and could have doubled their lead through efforts from Jackson and Enzo Fernandez.
But Mateta had the last word, tapping in Eze's pass after a slick move that also involved Ismaila Sarr to secure a valuable point for Palace.
Palace find a way
The Eagles could not find much attacking momentum in the first half, with Eze initially unable to create chances in the way he so often does.
Palace were perhaps fortunate to not fall further behind after a few near misses at the other end that kept the deficit at one while they were working their way into the game.
However, the hosts improved as the match progressed and they started peppering the Chelsea goal more frequently in the second half.
While this was not a performance that contained some of the flowing play they so impressively ended last season with, Oliver Glasner will be pleased his side found a way to keep their points tally ticking over.
Palace have only lost two of their last 12 league matches and positive results have been secured against the likes of Spurs, Aston Villa, Newcastle, Brighton & Hove Albion and now Chelsea.
Matches like this one are unlikely to decide whether Palace are going to be relegated – their next league fixture, away to Leicester City, is a more important one – but the level of performances over recent weeks suggest they should be good enough to avoid a real scrap.
And in Mateta, they certainly have a striker much of the league will be envious of.
Future bright for Chelsea despite late frustration
Chelsea's performance summed up what their boss Maresca has always said – they are an exciting work in progress.
The Blues have not necessarily done as much wrong as the results in their three matches coming into this one suggested and they also did plenty right here, with some lovely play and almost full control of the contest for the first hour.
But Chelsea could not take their chances or see out the win, with Palmer’s goal ending up as their only shot on target.
Despite missing out on the chance to go third, one major positive was a first Premier League start for Acheampong, who recently signed a new long-term contract with the club.
The 18-year-old defender has impressed in UEFA Conference League action for the Blues this season and slotted into the backline seamlessly, taking the most touches of any player on the pitch in the first half and forming part of a solid defensive effort overall.
With Wesley Fofana and Benoit Badiashile out of action, Maresca looks likely to turn to Acheampong for further appearances, especially after the teenager acquitted himself well at Selhurst Park, notoriously a tough venue for visiting teams.
Maresca will be eyeing upcoming home fixtures against AFC Bournemouth and Wolverhampton Wanderers as chances to end Chelsea’s wait for a first victory since 15 December.
Club reports
Crystal Palace report | Chelsea report
What the managers said
Oliver Glasner: "At the end it's a deserved point. In the first 20 or 30 minutes Chelsea were clearly the better team and deserved to take the lead but in the last 10-15 minutes of the first half we started to play forwards and then we were in the game."
Enzo Maresca: "It's a shame because I think we deserved to win the game, we had so many chances. We know we have to be clinical otherwise the game is always open and we conceded a goal."
Match officials
Referee: Tim Robinson. Assistants: Tim Wood, Steve Meredith. Fourth official: Simon Hooper. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: James Mainwaring.
