
Danny Ings’ second-half stoppage time strike rescued a point for West Ham as they drew 1-1 with Fulham at Craven Cottage.
Ings cancelled out Raul Jimenez’s first-half goal as local bragging rights were shared in this London derby.
Marco Silva’s side went ahead in the 24th minute when Jimenez arrived at the near post to turn home Emile Smith Rowe’s low centre.
The hosts looked set to collect all three points until the fifth minute of stoppage time, when substitute Ings controlled Jarrod Bowen’s cross and drilled past Bernd Leno.
A point apiece sees Fulham move up a place to 11th, while West Ham drop one to 14th.
How the match unfolded
Fulham should have gone in front in the 23rd minute, but Adama Traore headed Alex Iwobi's inviting cross wide from six yards out.
However, the hosts were not to be denied just 60 seconds later. Smith Rowe beat the offside trap to latch onto Andreas Pereira's through-ball, before crossing for Jimenez to tuck away.
Julen Lopetegui introduced Lucas Paqueta and Crysencio Summerville at half-time in a bid to sharpen West Ham's attacking threat.
The visitors went close to equalising on the hour mark when Bowen brilliantly controlled Mohammed Kudus' cross, but was thwarted by Leno's smart reflex save.
Paqueta fired narrowly over from distance soon after as West Ham continued their search for an equaliser.
Kenny Tete volleyed wide of the target at the other end, while Traore headed just over from a Tom Cairney cross, before Reiss Nelson shot straight at Alphonse Areola.
However, there was to be a late twist as Ings took Bowen’s low centre into his stride, before Leno could only help the fierce drive into the net.
Fulham still generated one final opportunity in the dying seconds when Calvin Bassey headed a free-kick wide, but both teams had to settle for a share of the spoils.
Jimenez strikes against West Ham yet again
After naming an unchanged starting XI in each of Fulham's opening three games, Silva included Joachim Andersen for the first time since he signed from Crystal Palace.
Bolstering the backline almost helped the Cottagers claim their first clean sheet of the campaign.
The hosts looked dangerous at the other end and carried the greater attacking threat for most of the contest.
Traore had already had a penalty appeal waved away before he headed a decent opportunity wide, but it was another former Wolves player who opened the scoring in Jimenez.
The Mexican was in the right place at the right time to steer home his sixth Premier League goal against West Ham - the most he has recorded against any opponent in the competition.
Only Arsenal and Chelsea collected more points in top-flight London derbies than Fulham last season, but they would have to settle for just one today after Ings’ last-gasp exploits.
Ings rescues Hammers
West Ham have been slow out of the blocks following international breaks in recent times.
They lost three of their four such matches last season, and that trend looked set to continue as they failed to register a shot on target during the first half at Craven Cottage.
But Lopetegui’s alterations appeared to rejuvenate the visitors, who looked a lot brighter going forward during the second half with Bowen going close to finding an equaliser.
Ings and new signing Carlos Soler also entered the action but, despite the impressive attacking options at their disposal, it seemed their efforts would be in vain.
Ings had other ideas, though. Bowen did brilliantly to keep the ball in play and send in a low cross towards the striker, who delivered when it mattered to prevent a third defeat in four games.
That will give West Ham momentum with more games of local interest on the horizon. Their next two see them welcome Chelsea to London Stadium before travelling to Brentford the following weekend.
Club reports
Fulham report | West Ham report
