
Crystal Palace moved three points clear of the relegation zone after a 1-0 victory over Ipswich Town.
Jean-Philippe Mateta scored the only goal at Portman Road, where Oliver Glasner’s side recorded their first away win of the league campaign.
The French striker made the decisive impact in the 59th minute with a neat lofted finish over Arijanet Muric after a swift counter by the visitors.
Ipswich could not respond and their wait for an elusive first home win since returning to the top flight goes on.
Palace climb a place to 16th and take their tally to 12 points, which is three more than Kieran McKenna’s side, who stay 19th.
How the match unfolded
It was a cagey first half between two sides that started in the Premier League’s bottom four. It was not until the 32nd minute that either side generated a decent opportunity, with Palace's Trevoh Chalobah heading over from close range.
Palace continued to threaten and Wes Burns did just about enough to deny Eberechi Eze following a swift counter, while at the other end, goalkeeper Dean Henderson came to the visitors’ rescue by keeping out Harry Clarke’s deflected header from a Leif Davis corner.
Liam Delap headed straight at Henderson just after the restart before the Eagles broke through on 59 minutes as Mateta accelerated away from Jacob Greaves before dinking over the advancing Muric.
Mateta went close again in the 67th minute after latching onto Eze’s pass, but was denied by Muric on this occasion.
Ipswich sought an equaliser as the clock ticked down. Substitutes Ali Al-Hamadi and Nathan Broadhead could not quite connect with Greaves’ header across the area following a well-worked free-kick.
That was as close as they came, with Palace holding on for an important three points.
Ipswich’s wait goes on
It is just under 30 years since these two sides last contested a Premier League game.
The 1994/95 season – the last to feature 22 teams – was one that culminated in both teams getting relegated, which is a fate they will be desperately trying to avoid this time around.
Ipswich are the only side still seeking a first home win of the campaign, and they struggled to generate a decent attacking threat during the first half.
Both sides appeared rejuvenated and carried greater purpose upon the restart, but Mateta’s goal knocked the Tractor Boys.
The nerves and tension among the home fans was evident as their side looked to mount a fight for the equaliser.
But other than the opportunity involving Al-Hamadi and Broadhead, they never truly put the Palace defence under intense pressure.
After seven attempts this term, a home win eludes them.
Palace end away drought
It is understandable if Palace were lacking confidence prior to Tuesday evening’s game at Portman Road.
Without a win in four matches – drawing three – Glasner’s side had failed to record a success on the road this term.
Nevertheless, they looked the more likely of the two teams to break the deadlock as the opening 45 minutes wore on.
Most of their attacking work came on the counter and they always looked dangerous with the threat carried by Eze, Mateta and Ismaila Sarr.
It was Mateta who made the difference with a well-taken goal. The goal means that he has now scored in each of his last four matches against promoted sides – only the second Palace player to achieve that, after Andy Johnson 20 years ago.
The match was also the visitors’ first away clean sheet since a 1-0 victory against Liverpool at Anfield in April.
Club reports
Ipswich report | Crystal Palace report
What managers said 
Kieran McKenna: "A disappointing night and probably many similarities to Saturday [the 1-0 loss at Nottingham Forest]. It was a competitive game, an even first half, not the highest quality game and not our best performance here.
"But we were right in the game and started the second half better but then gave away a poor goal and we were not able to produce the quality to open them up. We're not happy with the result and didn't make it the kind of game we wanted to give us a chance of getting a result."
Oliver Glasner: "Very pleased with the result. It was not about performing brilliantly. We expected a big fight and it was a big fight.
"It was an amazing goal, an amazing finish with Jean-Philippe Mateta. We had two or three chances to take the game away from them and didn't take them. At the end we had to be a bit lucky but I think we deserved to win."
Match officials
Referee: Craig Pawson. Assistants: James Mainwaring, Nat Aspinall. Fourth official: Gavin Ward. VAR: Chris Kavanagh. Assistant VAR: Gary Beswick.
