
An inspired display from substitute Dango Ouattara earned AFC Bournemouth a huge 2-1 victory over Ipswich Town, who remain without a win in the Premier League at Portman Road this season.
Ouattara notched the winner in the fifth minute of second-half stoppage time, having set up Enes Unal, who also came on, for the equaliser eight minutes earlier.
The home side took the lead in the first half through Conor Chaplin’s sweeping finish after good work by defender Cameron Burgess, before Unal bundled a header home with the help of Burgess’ outstretched foot.
But the Cherries sealed the win late on after David Brooks saw his effort saved by Arijanet Muric, only for the rebound to fall fortuitously for Ouattara to poke home.
The win moves Bournemouth up to eighth in the table, while Ipswich remain in 18th, four points adrift of Crystal Palace.
How the match unfolded
Bournemouth made an encouraging start and almost went ahead early on, but Marcus Tavernier was unable to convert Milos Kerkez’s fizzing cross from close range.
Ipswich overcame their shaky beginning and took the lead through Chaplin, who curled home Burgess’ delivery.
The hosts almost doubled their advantage seven minutes later, but Kepa Arrizabalaga produced an excellent save to keep out Jack Taylor’s deflected effort.
Tavernier then struck a post at the other end before Sam Szmodics’ corner was turned into his own net by Lewis Cook, but the goal was disallowed after a foul on Kepa, with Michael Salisbury’s on-field decision confirmed by VAR.
The Cherries improved after the break, with Cook’s effort from distance fizzing just past a post, but Ipswich were a threat on the counter-attack, with Szmodics forcing another save from Kepa after being slipped through by Liam Delap.
The Tractor Boys looked on course for a first home win of the season until Ouattara beat the onrushing Muric to the ball and crossed for Unal to equalise, before the Burkina Faso forward struck the decisive blow deep into stoppage time.
McKenna’s men dealt blow by late goals
Following the disappointment of losing at home to Crystal Palace in midweek, Kieran McKenna will be similarly displeased with a result which leaves them four points behind Palace in 17th position.
After navigating a tricky opening, Ipswich were on top at various points of the first half, making their pressure count with a well-worked Chaplin goal and having other opportunities to double their lead.
But the second half was a far different affair, with Bournemouth having much of the ball, leaving McKenna’s side needing to remain compact and well-organised out of possession while trying to hit them on the break, through the likes of Omari Hutchinson and the relentless Delap.
Unfortunately, they were unable to stand firm, despite Burgess showing his quality at both ends for his side, setting up Chaplin for the goal, followed by a wonderful last-ditch challenge to deny Justin Kluivert before superbly blocking Antoine Semenyo’s cross when Bournemouth had a three-on-two in the final 10 minutes.
Ipswich will seek to bounce back from this defeat when they travel to face fellow relegation strugglers Wolverhampton Wanderers next Saturday.
Super subs star for Cherries
Andoni Iraola’s side performed brilliantly to beat Tottenham Hotspur in midweek, backing up that triumph with their late win on Sunday, despite being behind for the majority of the match.
Just like in midweek, Bournemouth were guilty of wasting numerous chances, mainly in the first half, through Semenyo and Tavernier.
Ryan Christie tested Muric with a low effort that made its way through a crowd of bodies, but they eventually made their pressure count in the closing stages, helped by the introductions of Unal and Ouattara.
After keeping Ipswich penned inside their own half for much of the second half, Bournemouth left it late to turn their sustained possession into meaningful chances, rewarded with two well-taken efforts that capped off fine build-up play.
The Cherries will hope for a fourth-straight league win when they host West Ham United a week on Monday.
Club reports
Ipswich report | AFC Bournemouth report
Match officials
Referee: Michael Salisbury. Assistants: Wade Smith, Scott Ledger. Fourth official: Tom Bramall. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Craig Taylor.
