
Arsenal moved four points behind Premier League leaders Liverpool after Mikel Merino’s late double saw off struggling Leicester City 2-0.
Buoyed by Everton’s last-gasp equaliser in Wednesday's Merseyside derby, Arsenal took the chance to close the gap on Liverpool, though they had to be patient on Saturday.
After losing Kai Havertz to a season-ending injury, Mikel Arteta went without a recognised forward at the King Power Stadium, where the visitors ultimately required a superb-sub cameo from midfielder Merino.
Deployed up top after replacing Raheem Sterling, Merino headed in from Ethan Nwaneri’s excellent cross – the latter having earlier struck the woodwork twice – to break the deadlock in the 81st minute.
Merino doubled his tally six minutes later, sealing a victory that consolidates Arsenal’s place in second. Leicester remain in the bottom three, two points from safety.
How the match unfolded
An uneventful first half saw little goalmouth action, with Wilfred Ndidi’s volley from the edge of the box comfortably gathered by David Raya.
Though Arsenal dominated possession, Ndidi again went close just before the break, sending his header wide having been brilliantly picked out by Victor Kristiansen’s wicked delivery.
The visitors improved after half-time and almost edged ahead through the impressive Nwaneri, who flicked the crossbar with a thumping effort before he saw another fine attempt tipped onto the right-hand post by Mads Hermansen.
But then it was a case of the Merino show. Nwaneri turned provider with a delicately lofted delivery from the right, with the Spain international directing his header out of Hermansen’s reach.
Merino swiftly doubled up to wrap up the points, planting home a left-footed finish after latching onto Leandro Trossard’s left-wing centre.
Is Merino Arteta’s attacking answer?
After confirming that Havertz would miss the rest of the season earlier this week, and with Gabriel Jesus and Bukayo Saka also sidelined with long-term injuries, Arteta may have found the man to lead his line for the foreseeable future in Merino.
It was the first time that Arsenal were starting without at least one of Havertz, Jesus or Saka in the Premier League since a 2-0 win over Brighton & Hove Albion on the final day of the 2020/21 campaign, with Nwaneri, Trossard and Sterling getting the nod.
And apart from Declan Rice’s glanced header, the Gunners rarely threatened in the first half, perhaps down to a lack of fluidity in their attack. Arsenal were caught offside four times before the break, as they struggled to break down Leicester.
In the 69th minute, Arteta turned to his bench and moved Merino to the top of his attack – it was an inspired substitution that may have just helped keep his side firmly in the title race.
Merino, who has started just eight Premier League matches this season, may now find himself in the starting XI more regularly as Arteta looks to deal with his injury crisis up front, with a London derby at Emirates Stadium against West Ham United up next for Arsenal.
Foxes left reeling after another late show
After going down to Manchester United in contentions fashion in the FA Cup last week, Leicester were once again undone in the closing stages, denying them what might have proved a vital point in their fight to stay up.
Ayew almost gave the Foxes supporters something to cheer inside the opening minute after breaking in behind the Arsenal defence, before Ndidi’s volley was stopped by Raya.
Ndidi should have done better with his headed opportunity late in the first half, but in Leicester’s quest for the opening goal, they left themselves exposed at the back, and they were eventually undone by two moments of quality.
A potentially crucial moment came eight minutes before Arsenal took the lead, with Ayew’s teasing delivery across the face of goal almost finding Bobby De Cordova-Reid at the back, but Myles Lewis-Skelly was on hand to brilliantly turn the ball behind for a corner.
Despite a positive display in many ways, with Arsenal limited to few clear chances, it was another disappointing result for Ruud van Nistelrooy’s team, who welcome Brentford to the King Power Stadium in their next Premier League outing.
Club reports
Leicester report | Arsenal report
