
Pablo Sarabia's stunning free-kick secured Wolverhampton Wanderers' Premier League safety with a 1-0 victory over Manchester United.
The contest appeared to be drifting towards a stalemate at Old Trafford, with both sides demonstrating a general lack of quality in the final third.
However, Sarabia climbed off the bench to curl a superb 20-yard free-kick into the top corner 13 minutes from time to mathematically seal Wolves' top-flight status for another season.
Meanwhile, United were unable to build on the momentum of their midweek Europa League heroics, as their winless league streak extended to four matches.
Wolves moved level on points with Ruben Amorim's side after a fifth straight victory, and now 17 clear of 18th-place Ipswich Town, who were beaten 4-0 by Arsenal on Sunday.
How the match unfolded
Both sides generally struggled to generate a decent attacking threat during the first half, though United went the closest to breaking the deadlock.
Christian Eriksen's free-kick was tipped over by Dan Bentley, who was a late replacement in the Wolves goal after Jose Sa was injured during the warm-up, while Kobbie Mainoo curled wide from just outside the box.
The hosts continued to look the more dangerous of the two sides after the restart. Toti's wonderful last-ditch tackle denied Rasmus Hojlund, who was then inches away from connecting with Alejandro Garnacho's cross at the far post.
As the breakthrough continued to elude United, Wolves struck against the run of play in the 78th minute. Sarabia – shortly after replacing Jorgen Strand Larsen – curled a free-kick from just outside the box beyond the helpless dive of Andre Onana.
The visitors had to stand firm for the remainder as United pushed for the equaliser, but did so to extend their superb run of form and, more importantly, ensure Premier League football will now officially return to Molineux next term.
United brought back down to earth
Following a difficult season, the Old Trafford faithful were given something to cheer about on Thursday evening, when their side scored three times in the space of six extra-time minutes to stun Lyon in the Europa League quarter-finals.
There were jubilant scenes as United kept their hopes of securing Champions League football next season alive.
Amorim made five changes to the starting line-up on the back of that memorable win, notably introducing youngsters Fredericson and Amass, but his side struggled to build on the momentum from three days earlier.
He introduced Bruno Fernandes and Mason Mount just before the hour mark in a bid to boost United’s attacking threat, but the goal just would not come for them.
They were ultimately punished with Sarabia’s moment of magic bringing them right back down to earth.
Successive away matches against Bournemouth and Brentford are next up for United in the league.
Although no longer their main priority, Amorim will be demanding positive performances from his players in order to maintain morale with that Europa League last-four tie against Athletic Bilbao in mind.
Wonderful Wolves secure safety
They may have occupied 17th place before taking to the field at Old Trafford, but Wolves certainly arrived with a huge spring in their step.
Vitor Pereira had overseen the club’s first four-match winning streak in the Premier League and – with relegation rivals Ipswich and Leicester facing the top two in Arsenal and Liverpool respectively – he will have known this was a genuine opportunity to secure safety.
Matheus Cunha was back in the starting line-up, but it was Wolves’ defence that had to be on guard with United carrying the greater attacking threat.
Nevertheless, the rejuvenated backline refused to budge and it was Cunha who was fouled for the awarding of the free-kick, which Sarabia bent into the top-right corner in sublime fashion.
A goal worthy of winning any match, it was an ideal way to cap what has been a remarkable resurgence for Wolves.
Prior to Pereira’s first match in charge on December 22, they had 13 points fewer than United. Today’s victory has seen them move level with Ruben Amorim’s side.
With safety secured, he will now want his players to continue their strong finish to the campaign and keep building momentum towards next term.
Match officials
Referee: Rob Jones. Assistants: Ian Hussin, Neil Davies. Fourth official: Darren Bond. VAR: Matt Donohue. Assistant VAR: Nick Greenhalgh.
