
Ruben Amorim’s Manchester United fell to their second straight defeat in the Premier League after losing 3-2 to Nottingham Forest at Old Trafford.
Nikola Milenkovic gave the visitors a dream start, heading in a corner in the second minute but Rasmus Hojlund brought United back on level terms 16 minutes later.
After Jota Silva and Bruno Fernandes were denied by the woodwork at either end, Morgan Gibbs-White put Forest ahead again two minutes after the restart with a shot that too easily beat Andre Onana before Chris Wood’s header doubled the visiting side’s advantage.
It was Wood's 25th top-flight goal for Forest, making the New Zealander his club's leading Premier League goalscorer ahead of Bryan Roy.
United captain Fernandes then pulled one back for the hosts just past the hour mark, but their attempts to find an equaliser did not bear fruit.
With the hard-fought victory, Nuno Espirito Santo’s side climb to fifth with 25 points from 15 matches while United are 13th with 19 points, their lowest position after 15 league matches since 1986/87.
How the match unfolded
Forest came out fast, taking the lead just 91 seconds after kick-off as Milenkovic won his battle with Lisandro Martinez to head home an Elliot Anderson corner.
But United recovered from the early setback and asserted control, levelling the square through Hojlund in the 18th minute. Manuel Ugarte played a defence-splitting pass for Alejandro Garnacho, whose initial effort was saved by Matz Sels only for the Danish striker to score on the rebound.
The visitors almost regained the lead nine minutes later when Jota Silva hit the woodwork following a set-piece before United captain Fernandes' free-kick was tipped onto the bar by Sels four minutes before the break.
Forest began the second half like they did the first, as Gibbs-White’s low drive from the edge of the box wrongfooted Andre Onana, possibly with the help of Storm Darragh.
Wood’s looping header from a Gibbs-White cross then made it 3-1 with fewer than 10 minutes played in the second period.
Fernandes gave United hopes of a comeback when he beat Sels from outside the box following a cutback from Amad, but the Forest defence held firm to take home all three points.
United shaky at the back again
After another setback, United have only won one of Amorim’s first four Premier League games in charge – a 4-0 defeat of Everton at the start of the month.
Amorim handed Leny Yoro his full debut as United made five changes from the side that lost 2-0 to Arsenal on Wednesday, including the return of Martinez and Kobbie Mainoo from suspension.
But their defensive frailties from the Emirates Stadium, where they had conceded both goals from corners, were once again evident as Martinez let Milenkovic have a free header from a corner to concede early.
Onana’s error allowed the visitors to pull ahead again and their defending for Forest’s eventual winner also left a lot to be desired. Martinez watched on as Wood’s header ended up in the back of the net.
With his first Manchester derby coming next Sunday, Amorim will need to find solutions fast if he is to solve United’s issues.
Wood stars for Forest again
Forest were beaten fair and square by Manchester City on Wednesday, but Espirito Santo will be happy to return home with three points in the bag after a double-header in Manchester.
Callum Hudson-Odoi and Anderson returned to the starting line-up and bagged assists as Forest made quick starts to both the halves.
Forest captain Ryan Yates put in an excellent shift as he stuck to Fernandes whenever his United counterpart was in possession, but it was Wood who proved to be the matchwinner.
Having just aimed to avoid relegation during the last two campaigns, things are looking up for Forest this time around and they trail fourth-placed City by just two points.
Club reports
Man Utd report | Forest report
Match officials
Referee: Darren England. Assistants: Mat Wilkes, Akil Howson. Fourth official: Josh Smith. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Sian Massey-Ellis.
