
AFC Bournemouth stunned Manchester United with a thumping 3-0 victory to move up to fifth spot in the table as Ruben Amorim's mixed start in charge at Old Trafford continued.
Man Utd beat Manchester City with a late turnaround last weekend, though this showing was more in keeping with Thursday's chaotic EFL Cup loss to Tottenham Hotspur.
Dean Huijsen silenced the home crowd by heading home Ryan Christie's free-kick, his 29th-minute opener exposing United's set-piece frailties again on Sunday.
Bournemouth continued to look dangerous and found their reward when Justin Kluivert's penalty doubled the lead after 61 minutes before Antoine Semenyo slotted in a well-taken third just two minutes later.
This win lifts high-flying Bournemouth - unbeaten in five matches - to fifth in the table and just three points adrift of the top four, while United's struggles leave them 13th. It is the first time in Premier League history that Man Utd will be in the bottom half of the table at Christmas.
How the match unfolded
Chances were hard to come by in the opening stages as Amad tamely fired straight at Kepa Arrizabalaga, while Semenyo tested Andre Onana's handling from range at the other end.
United were unhappy that Tyrell Malacia's lunge on Adam Smith was deemed a foul, and home frustration heightened when Huijsen deftly headed Ryan Christie's resulting free-kick into the top-left corner.
Bruno Fernandes went close three times to levelling before the break, twice pulling narrowly wide either side of forcing a smart stop from Kepa after Kobbie Mainoo's offload.
Noussair Mazraoui's ill-timed sliding challenge allowed Bournemouth to extend their lead, with Kluivert converting down the middle after winning the penalty just past the hour.
Semenyo followed that up by sweeping beyond Onana from Dango Ouattara's low pullback before Leny Yoro somehow failed to score from close range as disappointed United supporters were already heading for the exit.
Much to ponder for Amorim
A 3-0 defeat to Bournemouth at Old Trafford last season marked one of many low points under Erik ten Hag, and this loss by an identical scoreline against the same opponents shows just how much work Amorim has to do.
An otherwise slow opening from the hosts saw Amad rush a low drive after smart work from Mainoo and Fernandes, who then dipped a long-range effort straight at Kepa.
Set-piece troubles proved Man Utd's undoing once more for Huijsen's opener that left Onana motionless before captain Fernandes went on a one-man conquest in search of a leveller.
Fernandes dragged a shot wide from the edge of the area from Amad's pass, aimed at Kepa following Mainoo's quick feet, and finished the half by arrowing narrowly wide from long distance.
Rasmus Hojlund and Alejandro Garnacho were introduced before the hour and both had chances after the damage was already done; the former drew a smart Kepa stop after the latter had raced through and been denied by the Bournemouth goalkeeper.
Another disappointing performance at both ends of the pitch means United – who visit a Wolverhampton Wanderers side on Boxing Day fresh from a 3-0 win at Leicester City – will spend Christmas in the bottom half of the table for the first time since the 1989/90 season, when they were 12th.
Free-flowing Bournemouth dreaming of Europe
Bournemouth have travelled well in recent weeks, beating Wolves and Ipswich Town, yet this performance - similar to the corresponding fixture last season - was their most impressive.
Andoni Iraola's side asserted their authority from the off, with Semenyo driving straight at Onana from range before Kluivert slipped when attempting a similar effort.
United may have had complaints about Malacia's foul on Smith, but Bournemouth deservedly capitalised on a strong opening when Christie's floated free-kick delivery found the almighty leap of Huijsen.
Huijsen's erroneous pass almost allowed Mainoo to tee up Fernandes for a first-half leveller, but Kepa stood firm to parry away as United increased the pressure.
Semenyo blazed over immediately after the interval when Onana's positioning was questionable, though the Bournemouth man made no mistake from near the penalty spot to make it 3-0 after Kluivert's left-sided run brought the earlier spot-kick.
Evanilson may not have scored in six league matches, but the Brazilian again provided a creative spark, having been heavily involved in the build-up to Semenyo's strike.
Iraola's free-flowing attack will have Bournemouth supporters dreaming of European qualification heading into the festive period, ahead of their next match at home to struggling Crystal Palace on Boxing Day.
Club reports
Man Utd report | AFC Bournemouth report
Match officials
Referee: Craig Pawson. Assistants: Nick Hopton, Akil Howson. Fourth official: Oliver Langford. VAR: Darren England. Assistant VAR: Eddie Smart.
