
Erling Haaland continued his sensational start to the new Premier League season with a brace that meant Manchester City came from behind to beat Brentford 2-1 on Saturday. 
Haaland, the EA SPORTS Premier League Player of the Month for August, had netted hat-tricks in his prior two appearances but had to settle for just the two goals at the Etihad Stadium, moving to 99 for City in all competitions. 
Yoane Wissa had stunned City after only 22 seconds of the match after capitalising on a defensive mix-up, but Haaland was not kept quiet for long. 
City’s master marksman had Pep Guardiola’s side back on terms in the 19th minute, before scoring what proved to be the winner before half-time. 
Haaland came close to completing another treble and bringing up his City century, but the champions had to survive a nervy finish to preserve the Premier League’s only 100 winning record at the top of the table, with Brentford back in seventh place. 
Liverpool's shock home loss to Nottingham Forest means Man City are three points clear at the top of the table. 
How the match unfolded 
The visitors stunned City with just 22 seconds on the clock when Keane Lewis-Potter’s header caused confusion in the penalty area, with Wissa the beneficiary as he nodded past Ederson. 
But parity was restored as Haaland netted again, firing a first-time right-footed effort across Mark Flekken into the far corner with the aid of a deflection. 
The turnaround was complete before half-time as Ederson’s long ball forward was misjudged by Ethan Pinnock, letting Haaland in to dink over Flekken. 
Where Ederson assisted Haaland from
Brentford continued to look a threat on the break, but the hosts created the better of the chances, with Jack Grealish and Savinho going close.  
Haaland thundered against a post when Flekken was beaten a third time, with his wait for a milestone goal going on. 
Haaland one off 100
Haaland’s involvement in this match had not been certain following the death of a family friend, but he was named in the starting XI and continued where he left off before the international break. 
Despite Brentford’s impressive start, it felt inevitable that Haaland would eventually make his mark on proceedings and did so with a fine finish, before doubling his tally in the first half to continue his hot streak for the defending Premier League champions. 
His first-half brace took his tally to nine for the campaign so far, the most for any player through the first four matches of a Premier League season, surpassing Wayne Rooney’s eight goals for Manchester United in 2011/12. 
Haaland came so close to improving that tally further when he struck the frame of the goal, while Flekken also had to be at his best to deny the striker another hat-trick matchball. 
It is City’s potential title rivals Arsenal who are up next in the Premier League and must now come up with a plan to contain Haaland, who is enjoying a remarkable start to the campaign. 
Bees lack clinical sting 
Brentford caused City real problems, but they were too often lacking a decisive touch in the final third as they fell to defeat. 
While Wissa’s goal was the fastest of the Premier League season so far, it was not a sign of things to come as further chances came and went without Thomas Frank’s side finding the net again. 
The foot of Rico Lewis denied Bryan Mbeumo a chance to round Ederson to score, with the Brazilian goalkeeper forced into making a smart save down low to repel Nathan Collins’ goal-bound effort. 
Brentford did not possess the same threat for much of the second half, although Yegor Yarmolyuk’s dragged effort in the first minute of stoppage time had City supporters with their hearts in their mouths. 
Despite defeat in one of the toughest fixtures of the Premier League season, Brentford would have left the Etihad encouraged by a performance that could easily have upset City.
See: Man City report | Brentford report
Match officials
Referee: Darren Bond. Assistants: Adrian Holmes, Simon Long. Fourth official: Ben Toner. VAR: Darren England. Assistant VAR: Harry Lennard.
