
Omar Marmoush scored a 14-minute hat-trick as Manchester City dispatched Newcastle United 4-0 to return to winning ways in the Premier League.
City lost 5-1 to Arsenal in their last top-flight outing and came into Saturday’s contest at the Etihad Stadium on the back of a last-gasp UEFA Champions League defeat to Real Madrid on Tuesday.
But they responded in emphatic fashion, with Marmoush the star of a brilliant first-half display.
The 26-year-old opened his City account with a lob from Ederson’s raking pass, then fired low into the bottom corner for his second before side-footing in his third just after the half-hour.
Marmoush went off to a standing ovation before substitute James McAtee rounded out a comprehensive victory that leaves City three places and as many points clear of seventh-placed Newcastle.
How the match unfolded
City’s reward for a fine start came in the 19th minute as Ederson floated a sublime pass over Newcastle’s defence and Marmoush lofted a weighted finish over Martin Dubravka.
Marmoush added his second five minutes later, keeping himself onside to meet Ilkay Gundogan’s pass before drilling a low finish into the left-hand corner, with the help of a deflection off Kieran Trippier.
Savinho shot straight at Dubravka at the end of a fine move, but the winger was involved again moments later with a fine cutback into Marmoush, who coolly completed his hat-trick.
Ederson beat away a fierce attempt from substitute Lewis Miley as Newcastle showed green shoots of recovery in the second half, though City swiftly quashed any further signs of revival.
Marmoush was able to receive the plaudits from the home faithful when he made way off in the 76th minute, eight minutes before McAtee added further gloss as he hooked in from point-blank range following Haaland’s flick-on from a corner.
Magnificent Marmoush makes his mark
Only Harry Kane had scored more Bundesliga goals this season than Marmoush prior to the Egyptian’s move from Eintracht Frankfurt to City last month, so Pep Guardiola knew he was getting a top-tier finisher.
And after some bright signs in his opening matches, Marmoush’s City career is now truly up and running.
His hat-trick was City’s fourth-fastest in the club’s Premier League history (between the first and third goals), and his finishes displayed the variety he has in his locker.
Positioned out on the left, Marmoush was given freedom to roam, using his turn of pace to bamboozle Trippier, who was taken off by Newcastle boss Eddie Howe at half-time.
It might have been more for City in the first half – Savinho should have done better when put through by Phil Foden, and Erling Haaland saw a dangerous cross diverted just wide by Dan Burn.
It will particularly please Guardiola that, on this occasion, City did not run the risk of allowing Newcastle back into the match.
Guardiola, who was dealt some concern when Haaland went down clutching his knee late on, though the striker appeared to be okay as he made his way to the bench, will now want to see this level of performance in City’s huge encounters next week.
First, they head to the Santiago Bernabeu in the Champions League, before they host Premier League leaders Liverpool.
Newcastle leave the Etihad empty-handed again
Newcastle have now lost their last 16 visits to City in the Premier League and remain winless at the Etihad Stadium in the competition.
But even accounting for the Magpies’ torrid record at City, their first-half display will have deeply disappointed Howe.
Newcastle’s defence was unable to cope with the movement of City’s fluid front line, with Savinho stretching the pitch down one side, and Marmoush able to drop into pockets of space alongside Foden ahead of the visiting defence.
While they are not the first team, and will not be the last, to fall foul of Ederson’s excellent passing range, Newcastle’s defence was static as Marmoush darted behind the line for the opener, and Trippier could not keep pace.
It was no shock to see Howe take off the 34-year-old at the interval.
After back-to-back league defeats, Howe will want to see a response when Newcastle host Nottingham Forest next week.
Club reports
Man City report | Newcastle report
Match officials
Referee: Andy Madley. Assistants: Nick Hopton, Craig Taylor. Fourth official: Tim Robinson. VAR: John Brooks. Assistant VAR: Lee Betts.
