
Wolverhampton Wanderers picked up their first point of the season as Jean-Ricner Bellegarde’s stunning strike secured a 1-1 draw at the City Ground.
Chris Wood’s towering header put the hosts ahead after 10 minutes, but the visitors were level just two minutes later through Bellegarde’s superb effort from 20 yards out.
In an even contest, both sides had chances to take all three points, though the hosts looked more likely to find a winner in the second half.
Wolves debutant Sam Johnstone had to make a superb save to deny Wood his second goal of the match as Gary O'Neil's men held on for their first point of the season.
After three games, unbeaten Forest sit eighth in the table while Wolves climb to 17th and out of the relegation zone. 
How the match unfolded
Wood gave Forest an early lead, heading Elliot Anderson’s corner past Johnstone and into the bottom-right corner.
The visitors, however, responded immediately through Bellegarde’s stunning long-range effort after the ball sat up perfectly for the midfielder to fire into the roof of the net from outside the area.
Matheus Cunha dragged an effort wide of the post before Johnstone made a good stop to push Morgan Gibbs-White’s free-kick wide as an open first half ended all square.
Anderson’s deflected effort narrowly dipped over the crossbar and Johnstone denied Wood with a strong hand as the hosts searched for a winner after the break.
Cunha then curled an effort narrowly wide of a post in the visitors’ best chance of the second half before Wood thought he had won it late on, only for his strike to be ruled out for offside.
Forest stay unbeaten
Forest continued their unbeaten start to the season, though they may be slightly frustrated at having to settle for a point against Midlands rivals Wolves, as head coach Nuno Espirito Santo was unable to claim victory over his former employers.
After taking four points from six to start the season, there was an air of positivity around the City Ground ahead of kick-off.
It was a dream start when Wood netted for a second home game in a row, but Bellegarde's stunning response saw their momentum dissipate somewhat.
Forest got back on the front foot in the second half as Anthony Elanga, Callum Hudson-Odoi and Gibbs-White caused the visitors problems with their pace and movement, but they were unable to find a second goal.
Midfielder Anderson also impressed, but it will be his midfield partner, Ibrahim Sangare, who Forest will be concerned about, after he was substituted with an injury early in the second half.
Wolves find strength
Wolves boss O’Neil was able to enjoy a far more resolute defensive display from his side than the one that was punished by six Chelsea goals last weekend.
O’Neil handed a debut to Deadline Day signing Johnstone in goal while also welcoming the experienced Craig Dawson and Nelson Semedo back in defence.
They showed a positive reaction from that Chelsea defeat inside two minutes as Rayan Ait-Nouri was played through by Cunha, but the full-back could not squeeze the ball through the legs of the goalkeeper from a tight angle.
Bellegarde's goal, meanwhile, was worth the admission fee alone and represented the perfect response to falling behind.
Wolves continue to face a run of tough fixtures to open the new season, but they have at least laid a foundation by taking a point from a tricky away match.
Club reports
Nott'm Forest report | Wolves report
Match officials
Referee: Simon Hooper. Assistants: Adrian Holmes, Simon Long. Fourth official: Dean Whitestone. VAR: Michael Salisbury. Assistant VAR: Sian Massey-Ellis.
