
Callum Hudson-Odoi boosted Nottingham Forest’s hopes of qualifying for the UEFA Champions League as his late goal earned his side 1-0 win over Manchester City at The City Ground.
There had been little to split the sides before Hudson-Odoi’s goal in the 83rd minute, with the winger’s powerful strike beating Ederson at his near post.
Nico Gonzalez had struck the post with a stunning long-range effort in the 14th minute, but that remained City’s clearest opening in the game.
Hudson-Odoi, who had already seen a curler brilliantly tipped onto the post by Ederson, then ensured Forest got back to winning ways, ending a run of three matches without a victory.
Forest remain third, now on 51 points, moving four above Man City, who could drop out of the top four if Chelsea avoid defeat against Leicester City on Sunday.
How the match unfolded
City started the game brightly, with Erling Haaland gifted an early chance as he picked Chris Wood’s pocket just outside the box, only to drag his low shot through Murillo’s legs and wide of the far post.
Six minutes later, Nico sent Matz Sels scrambling with a rifled effort from long range, but his strike clipped the side of the post on its way wide.
Wood almost caught out Ederson just before the break. He latched onto a long ball from Sels before trying to chip the Brazilian, who had rushed off his line, but Ederson held it.
The goalkeeper saved his team in the 67th minute when Hudson-Odoi cut inside from the left to curl a shot through the crowded box – Ederson got down sharply to tip it onto the far post.
However, he was then beaten by Hudson-Odoi as the winger took advantage of acres of space on the right to cut inside and beat Ederson at his near post and snatch all three points.
Forest stay on course for top-four finish
Man City were in a slump the last time these sides met in the Premier League in early December, but they nonetheless earned a 3-0 win over Forest at the Etihad Stadium.
However, Forest showed their mettle in this meeting, extending their advantage over the Citizens in the race for Champions League qualification.
Having failed to win any of their three Premier League games since their 7-0 victory over Brighton & Hove Albion though, they made a tentative start on Saturday.
Wood got away with one as Haaland failed to find the target after dispossessing him, and while the hosts defended well, they struggled to make inroads at the other end.
The defence-first attitude changed after the break. Nicolas Dominguez met Anthony Elanga’s clipped cross on the stretch, but his volley was held by Ederson
Hudson-Odoi worked the wide spaces well and finally got his reward on 83 minutes, with Josko Gvardiol leaving it too late to close him down.
Forest now have a five-point cushion over fifth-placed Chelsea and will hope to build on this momentum against relegation-threatened Ipswich Town next time out.
Man City stumble again
City’s troubles this season have been well documented, but Pep Guardiola would have been keen to gain a stronger foothold in the top four with a win over Forest.
They looked determined to do just that as they came out of the blocks quickly, but after their two early chances through Haaland and Nico, they struggled to impose themselves in the final third.
Phil Foden and Bernardo Silva squandered good chances, with the latter skying a first-time shot while under pressure, while Jeremy Doku’s low curler just before half-time barely troubled Sels.
That trend continued in the second half despite the visitors dominating possession, and they were indebted to Ederson as they failed to offer anything of note at the other end.
Introducing Kevin De Bruyne did prove a much-needed spark, but it was too little, too late. Even when Morgan Gibbs-White presented Mateo Kovacic with the chance for a last-minute equaliser with a skewed clearance, the Croat’s shot curled just wide of Sels’s far post.
City missed the opportunity to move third with a win and have now alternated between wins and losses in their last six Premier League matches. They face another tough test against Brighton in their next match.
Club reports
Forest report | Man City report
What the managers said
Nuno Espirito Santo: "The focus does not change. We are on to the next one, Ipswich. It [beating City] shows the progress of the squad but there is so much football to be played. Let’s focus on the journey and move on to the next one."
Pep Guardiola: "A tight game, we controlled transitions, we had chances to shoot but were not precise. In the second half there were transitions and in a transition they scored."
"We knew the game would be difficult. Every season the Premier League gets better and better. We have 10 finals and the next one we start."
Match officials
Referee: Chris Kavanagh. Assistants: Lee Betts, Scott Ledger. Fourth official: Sam Allison. VAR: Darren England. Assistant VAR: Akil Howson.
