
Gabriel Magalhaes scored the decisive goal as Arsenal got back to winning ways with a 1-0 victory over Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday.
The defender netted the only goal of the contest after 64 minutes, punishing Spurs for a lapse in concentration from a corner.
The hosts had the better chances in the first half but were thwarted by David Raya's saves and some disappointing misses.
Despite Spurs' search for a late equaliser, Arsenal were able to hold out and maintain their unbeaten start to the Premier League season.
Mikel Arteta’s side are up to second in the table on 10 points, while Spurs are 13th after suffering their second defeat of the campaign.
How the match unfolded
The hosts made a strong start to the match, with Raya called into early action, making a sharp stop to deny Dejan Kulusevski at his near post.
Kai Havertz’s header was then kept out at the other end before Gabriel Martinelli fired a tame shot straight at Guglielmo Vicario after a driving run.
Dominic Solanke came within inches of a debut goal just before the half-hour mark, with his looping header bouncing just wide of the far post while Micky van de Ven was denied by Raya just after half-time.
Arsenal profited from another set-piece after 64 minutes, as Bukayo Saka’s pinpoint cross picked out Gabriel, who thumped a free header over Vicario after some slack defending from Cristian Romero.
Spurs had opportunities to level the score late on, though looked hesitant to take them, as Pape Sarr hit the target with a low shot straight into Raya’s gloves.
Kulusevski came closest to finding an equaliser in the closing stages, cutting inside to whip a shot just over the crossbar.
Spurs’ derby day blues
In the exact fixture last season, Spurs were 3-0 down at half-time and, although they fought back, they still lost the fixture 3-2.
Some would argue that this was a good time to face Arsenal, with their selection problems, but they could not take advantage.
Getting to the break with a clean sheet intact will have felt like a big step for Ange Postecoglou’s side, but they should have been in front after big chances for Kulusevski and Solanke.
Their intensity dropped in the second half, offering little after Van de Ven’s shot in the 49th minute until their late push. They also struggled to find spaces in the final third, even after the introductions of Sarr and Wilson Odobert.
Postecoglou is yet to beat Arsenal in three attempts, and with just one win from four so far this season, he will be looking to get his team back on track when they welcome Brentford to the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium next week.
Arsenal weather midfield crisis
Arteta faced many questions in the build-up to this match, with many focusing on how he would manage a sudden lack of midfield options.
New signing Mikel Merino is out with a shoulder injury, while Declan Rice was suspended after his red card before the international break. Their luck worsened in midweek as Martin Odegaard suffered an ankle injury on international duty with Norway.
But Arteta got creative. He shifted Thomas Partey out on the right, allowing Jorginho to slot in the deeper lying role, with Martinelli providing extra width on the opposite flank.
Their high press caused Spurs problems as they tried to play out from the back, but they also defended resolutely, with Raya producing some stand-out saves.
However, the manager may have another problem. Saka went off after receiving treatment late on. Ahead of a busy week, which includes a trip to champions Manchester City in the Premier League next Sunday, an injury to one of his star players will be the last thing he needs.
Club reports
Spurs report | Arsenal report
Match officialsReferee: Jarred Gillett. Assistants: Darren Cann, James Mainwaring. Fourth official: Robert Jones. VAR: Stuart Attwell. Assistant VAR: Constantine Hatzidakis.
