
A stoppage-time goal from Lesley Ugochukwu earned Southampton a deserved 1-1 draw at West Ham United after a spirited performance.
Jarrod Bowen netted a fine goal two minutes into the second half.
Tyler Dibling had a brilliant chance to equalise with just 10 minutes remaining but fired his effort over the crossbar.
However, a wonderful volley from Ugochukwu from the edge of the area gave the Premier League’s bottom side their second point in nine games.
Southampton remain bottom of the table on 11 points, while West Ham - on a six-match winless streak - move up to 16th place, one point above Wolves having played a game more.
How the match unfolded
The Hammers went close early as Niclas Fullkrug made a run to the front post to apply a finish to Lucas Paqueta’s cross, but Aaron Ramsdale was able to keep it out from close range.
Southampton caused more problems as the half wore on, with a fine attacking move leading to Kyle Walker-Peters sliding an effort inches wide of the far post.
They went even closer minutes later as Kamaldeen Sulemana struck an effort against the crossbar from inside the penalty area.
West Ham took the lead two minutes into the second half as a quick counter-attack led to Bowen curling a fine effort past the despairing Ramsdale and into the far corner.
Southampton created a brilliant chance on 80 minutes as a knockdown from a free-kick found Dibling in space inside the area, but he blazed his shot over with the goal at his mercy.
West Ham thought they had done enough for the win but were to be denied by a moment of brilliance from Ugochukwu, netting his first Premier League goal.
Hammers labour under Potter
Graham Potter has not had the best of starts at West Ham, with the club in 17th place at the start of the day’s play, behind a Wolves side that have fought relegation for most of the season.
There was more possession on display at London Stadium, but a lack of incisiveness in offensive positions failed to liven up a home crowd that has been largely devoid of any excitement this season, after a thoroughly disappointing campaign.
They struggled with some of the attacking patterns from the already-relegated Saints, primarily in the first half, and they were lucky not to fall behind as they headed off at half-time to a chorus of boos.
Fullkrug made a return to the side and did offer himself as something of a focal point, going close early on and then turning provider for Bowen’s goal on the break early in the second half.
There was not much improvement from Potter’s men after the goal as they sat back with minutes remaining and conceded late on.
West Ham travel to Potter's former club Brighton & Hove Albion next Saturday.
Relegated Saints draw level with Derby
Southampton kept UEFA Champions League quarter-finalists Aston Villa at bay for 73 minutes before the floodgates opened last week, but there were aspects of their performance that interim manager Simon Rusk would have found encouraging.
His side were the better of the two in the first half, feeling their way into the match after a nervy start and had the best chances as they searched for the breakthrough.
Sulemana was a livewire, drifting in from the left and penetrating the West Ham backline with his runs in behind, while Paul Onuachu held the ball up well as a target man.
Unfortunately for Rusk, his side gave away a needless goal as they were left on the back foot after committing too many bodies forward up the pitch.
Saints did offer some fight despite going behind and found a deserved equaliser through a brilliant strike from Ugochukwu.
This point means they’ve drawn level with Derby County’s record-low points tally of 11 from 2007/08 and have five matches remaining to better the Rams' total. They host Fulham next Saturday.
Match reports
West Ham report | Southampton report
What the managers said
Graham Potter: "Our performance wasn't good enough, first half especially. Nowhere near what we wanted to do. Credit to Southampton but we need to do better with the balance between attack and defence.
"In the modern Premier League, you have to do both sides of the game - we're struggling to do that, to sustain attacks, keep the ball well to create chances. We struggled.
Simon Rusk: "Really pleased for the fans. Really pleased for the players as well, I think they deserved their moment at the end today.
"A nice moment of togetherness, which I think will do everyone good. In the end, it was the least we deserved out of the game."
Match officials
Referee: Andrew Kitchen. Assistants: Simon Bennett, Dan Robathan. Fourth official: Anthony Taylor. VAR: Stuart Attwell. Assistant VAR: Marc Perry.
