
AFC Bournemouth’s winless run in the Premier League extended to six matches after they had to settle for a dramatic 2-2 draw with West Ham United at the London Stadium.
Evanilson had given Bournemouth the lead just before half-time on Saturday, converting a simple finish following a mistake from West Ham goalkeeper Alphonse Areola.
The visitors had controlled the first half, but West Ham flipped the script in the space of seven second-half minutes, with a pair of headers from substitute Niclas Fullkrug and captain Jarrod Bowen putting the Hammers ahead.
However, Evanilson got his second goal of the game 11 minutes from time, sealing a share of the spoils with another finish from close range, with his strike confirmed after a check for offside by VAR.
The result sees West Ham, who have themselves gone four top-flight matches without a win, edge up to 15th in the table, while Bournemouth move up one place and into ninth position on 45 points. 
How the match unfolded
Bournemouth almost made a lightning start to the match, with Evanilson heading just wide from Dango Ouattara’s teasing delivery from the left-hand side after just two minutes.
The Cherries did take the lead in the 38th minute when Areola could only parry Antoine Semenyo’s shot into the path of Evanilson, who gratefully tucked the ball in from inside the six-yard box.
Despite rarely threatening in the contest up to the hour-mark, West Ham drew level after 61 minutes when Fullkrug rose highest to power James Ward-Prowse’s corner past Kepa Arrizabalaga, before Bowen did well to convert Mohammed Kudus’ cross with an aerial effort of his own.
However, Bournemouth were able to claim a point in the closing stages through Evanilson, with the Brazilian on hand to turn Dean Huijsen’s knockdown into the net, moving him up to nine league goals this season.
Potter’s subs improve blunt Hammers
Graham Potter had urged his players to show more dynamism in attack and an improved competitive spirit in their quest to climb up the Premier League table, but the Hammers head coach had to wait until well after the break to see his side trouble Bournemouth after a lacklustre opening period.
West Ham’s only opportunity of note before the break came when Ollie Scarles dug out a cross that was crying out for a touch inside the box, but no one in claret and blue was waiting.
Potter opted to make one change at half-time, with Scarles replaced by Emerson, but he quickly turned to his bench again in the 54th minute. Fullkrug and Carlos Soler entered the action in place of Edson Alvarez and Tomas Soucek, switches that turned the game on its head.
West Ham looked more composed and threatening in attack almost immediately, with Fullkrug’s equaliser their first shot on target just seven minutes after he had come on.
Bowen was on a run without a goal or an assist in his last five appearances at the London Stadium, but he ended that drought with a fine header.
And West Ham had their chances to snatch all three points late on, but Bowen sent two efforts narrowly off target and substitute Luis Guilherme hit the side-netting.
Though it was not the result they had hoped for, West Ham have an improved second-half performance to build on ahead of facing Liverpool at Anfield next week.
Cherries’ European hopes continues to falter
Bournemouth were one of the surprise packages in the opening parts of the season, with many tipping Andoni Iraola’s side to kick on and seal a place in the top seven.
But as well as exiting the FA Cup to Manchester City, their poor league form of late has left their dreams of competing among Europe’s elite now hanging by a thread.
They are now without a Premier League victory since a 3-1 win over Southampton on 15 February, and they will be frustrated about how they let what had looked like a comfortable lead slip in this contest.
After Evanilson’s opener, Bournemouth almost entered half-time further in front, but Illia Zabarnyi could only head on to the crossbar from close range following Lewis Cook’s inviting corner kick.
But the Cherries were unable to deal with West Ham’s revival provided by their substitutes, and Bournemouth faded as an attacking force until late on when Semenyo saw his strike from a promising position repelled by the legs of Areola.
There was a promising late breakaway too, but substitute Daniel Jebbison was unable to pick out Cook with Bournemouth having an overload in attack, as the outcome of an entertaining contest hung in the balance until the final moments.
Bournemouth need results fast if they are to disrupt a competitive battle for the European places. They will come up against Fulham, who are also seeking a continental spot, in their next Premier League encounter at the Vitality Stadium. 
Club reports
West Ham report | Bournemouth report
Match officials
Referee: Tim Robinson. Assistants: Eddie Smart, Steve Meredith. Fourth official: Steve Martin. VAR: Jarred Gillett. Assistant VAR: Darren Cann.
