
An inspired display from Matheus Cunha led Wolverhampton Wanderers to a sixth straight Premier League victory following their 3-0 win over relegated Leicester City.
The Brazilian scored and provided two assists as the resurgent hosts extended their record streak of successes in the competition at Molineux, where Jamie Vardy's second-half penalty was denied.
Cunha broke the deadlock with a close-range finish for his 15th league goal of the season for Wolves, who secured their top-flight status after last weekend's 1-0 win over Manchester United at Old Trafford.
The Brazilian then turned provider after the break for Jorgen Strand Larsen and Rodrigo Gomes to condemn the Foxes to a 10th defeat in 11 games.
Vitor Pereira's side climb above Everton and Manchester United, who play AFC Bournemouth on Sunday, to 13th place, while Leicester remain 19th.
How the match unfolded
Wolves carried the greater attacking threat from the off. Cunha was marginally off target from distance, while he also shot straight at Leicester goalkeeper Mads Hermansen.
Rayan Ait-Nouri was then denied by Wout Faes on the line. Although, the Algerian played a key role as Wolves broke the deadlock in the 33rd minute, with his fizzing low ball across the six-yard box turned in by Cunha.
Strand Larsen should have doubled the hosts’ lead when he fired over from two yards out, but the Wolves striker was not to be denied in the 56th minute; receiving a well-timed pass from Cunha and slotting past Hermansen.
Leicester were given a lifeline in the 70th minute when Jose Sa felled Vardy in the box, but the Wolves goalkeeper atoned for his error by guessing correctly to deny Leicester's captain.
The hosts had the final word five minutes from time, with substitute Gomes’ neat finish from a Cunha pass rounding off a swift counter and sealing the victory.
Six in a row for Wolves
To say Wolves are currently riding the crest of a wave would be an understatement.
Pereira's side mathematically ensured they would be playing in the Premier League next season with their victory at Old Trafford last weekend. Now, they were looking to win six straight top-flight matches for the first time since 1970.
After sounding out several warnings, Wolves finally broke the deadlock with Cunha in the right place at the right time to direct Ait-Nouri's cross home.
Strand Larsen, who was off target from close range on two separate occasions, was third time lucky with a neat finish from Cunha's through-ball that was ultimately enough to put the game beyond Leicester.
The hosts were given a scare when the referee awarded the Foxes a penalty in the final 20 minutes, but after Sa thwarted Vardy, it was fairly plain sailing to the finish line thereon with Rodrigo subsequently putting the icing on the cake.
Wolves face reigning Premier League champions Manchester City next Friday and will travel to the Etihad Stadium full of confidence as they aim to maintain their strong finish to the campaign. 
Leicester outfoxed
With their Premier League fate already sealed, Leicester are now playing for pride in an attempt to build some momentum before returning to the Championship next season.
However, Ruud van Nistelrooy will have known it would be difficult to do that against a Wolves side brimming with confidence. The Foxes failed to heed their early warnings and were eventually punished as Cunha struck from close range.
Leicester lost Bobby De Cordova-Reid to injury before the break, while Van Nistelrooy then made three changes at half-time.
Bilal El Khannouss went close from distance in the 55th minute but, within 60 seconds, the visitors were 2-0 down as Wolves cut through the defence courtesy of Cunha and Strand Larsen.
Vardy, who announced in the week he will leave Leicester at the end of the season, had the opportunity to begin his farewell tour with a goal, but his tame penalty was kept out by Sa in his bottom-right corner.
Rodrigo then put the contest well and truly beyond the Foxes later on, as they failed to score in a 16th Premier League game this season.
They will want to put that right in their last four matches, starting against fellow relegated side Southampton next weekend.
Club reports
Wolves report | Leicester report
Match officials
Referee: Sam Barrott. Assistants: Tim Wood, Wade Smith. Fourth official: Darren Bond. VAR: Graham Scott. Assistant VAR: Simon Long.
