
Wolverhampton Wanderers earned their first Premier League win of the season and moved off the bottom of the table as they beat fellow relegation battlers Southampton 2-0 at Molineux.
Pablo Sarabia scored Wolves’ fastest-ever Premier League goal to give them the breakthrough with only one minute and 48 seconds on the clock.
Southampton left-back Ryan Manning had a goal overturned by the referee 10 minutes later following a VAR review, but Matheus Cunha’s stunning strike early in the second half ended hopes of a Saints comeback.
Southampton continued to see more of the ball and probed for a goal, but the Wolves defence held firm to secure a crucial victory in a battle between the strugglers.
The result means Wolves climb to 18th, with six points, while Southampton now occupy the bottom spot, with four points from 11 matches.
How the match unfolded
Wolves made a dream start to the game as Sarabia latched on to a perfectly weighted pass from Cunha before rounding Aaron Ramsdale and slotting into an open goal inside two minutes.
Manning thought he had equalised for the visitors when his thumping finish from close range went in 10 minutes later, but his goal was overturned by the officials after a VAR review for Mateus Fernandes’ foul on Nelson Semedo in the build-up.
Russell Martin’s side ended the half strongly, but could not find an equaliser.
They were made to pay as Cunha found the top corner from 25 yards out six minutes into the second half to give the hosts a two-goal lead.
Jean-Ricner Bellegarde had the chance to make it three in second-half stoppage time, but failed to connect with a cross from Rayan Ait-Nouri in front of goal.
Wolves breathe a sigh of relief
Wolves were made to wait until their 11th match to get the first win of the Premier League season, but it has come at a good time.
They have not had the kindest fixtures to start their season. Losing to Arsenal, Chelsea, Aston Villa, Liverpool and Manchester City – all sides in the top six ahead of Saturday's games.
But back-to-back draws against Brighton & Hove Albion and Crystal Palace, followed by three points against Southampton will have come as a much-needed boost.
Captain Mario Lemina started again after a calf problem, but it was Cunha who grabbed the headlines with a defence-splitting pass for the opener before a magnificent strike from distance that helped seal the victory.
But Wolves cannot afford to be complacent as they enter a run of fixtures that could define their season, in which they face Everton, West Ham United, Ipswich Town and Leicester City before Christmas.
If O’Neil’s side can produce displays like today in those games, it will go a long way in putting them in better health by the turn of the year.
Saints slip to the bottom
While Wolves will have their spirits up, Southampton will rue a missed opportunity as they slip to the foot of the Premier League table.
Martin’s side had come into the fixture after a confidence-boosting win over Everton last week – their first of the campaign. But they were put on the back foot almost immediately here after a blistering start from the hosts.
Southampton, however, did not let their heads drop and Manning had the ball in the back of the net soon after, only to see it ruled out.
That was as good as it got for the Saints as they fell further behind early in the second half and ended the game without a shot on target, despite seeing a major share of possession.
Unlike Wolves, their schedule only gets tougher in the coming weeks, hosting Liverpool, Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur as well as making challenging trips to Brighton & Hove Albion and Aston Villa.
Club reports
Wolves report | Southampton report
Match officials
Referee: Thomas Bramall. Assistants: Scott Ledger, Akil Howson. Fourth official: Dean Whitestone. VAR: Chris Kavanagh. Assistant VAR: Ian Hussin.
