
Justin Kluivert became the first player to score a hat-trick of penalties in a single Premier League game as AFC Bournemouth punished an error-strewn display from Wolverhampton Wanderers to win 4-2 at Molineux.
Kluivert’s third-minute spot-kick started the scoring after Evanilson was brought down by Toti Gomes, only for Jorgen Strand Larsen to level for the hosts with a fine header soon after.
The Cherries took the lead again through Milos Kerkez before doubling their advantage through Kluivert’s second penalty, but were pegged back by Strand Larsen once again after the break.
The result was sealed in the 74th minute when Jose Sa fouled with Evanilson, with Kluivert stepping up to coolly slot the ball down the middle to restore his side's two-goal advantage.
Saturday’s away win moves Bournemouth up to 11th on 18 points, while Wolves go 18th.
How the match unfolded
A frenetic opening started when Evanilson tangled with Gomes inside the box during the opening minute, with Kluivert stepping up to send Sa the wrong way from the penalty spot.
However, parity was restored two minutes later as Jean-Ricner Bellegarde’s teasing delivery was powerfully met by the head of Strand Larsen, though Wolves’ joy was short-lived.
A fine move ended with Kerkez firing in at the near post, before Evanilson was tripped by Sa after the Wolves goalkeeper failed to clear his lines, with the decision given by referee Peter Bankes following a VAR review as Kluivert doubled his tally from 12 yards.
Hopes of a comeback were ignited when Strand Larsen notched his second of the game with a fierce effort that flashed past Kepa Arrizabalaga in the 69th minute.
But Craig Dawson’s underhit backpass saw Evanilson brought down by Sa in the box, with Kluivert rolling the ball down the middle to seal the win on 74 minutes.
Wolves will be frustrated by errors
After impressive back-to-back victories that highlighted Wolves’ plethora of attacking talent, it was their defence that was put under the microscope after an error-filled display at home.
Gary O’Neil’s side were architects of their own downfall, with defensive lapses from Gomes and Sa gifting Bournemouth two goals. They failed to learn their lesson, allowing chance after chance for the Cherries in the first half with avoidable mistakes at the back.
The hosts did have penalty appeals of their own waved away when Rodrigo Gomes was felled inside the box following Matheus Cunha’s overhit free-kick in first-half stoppage time.
Wolves continued to make sloppy errors, with Mario Lemina, starting in central defence, producing an expertly-timed challenge to deny Kerkez, though substitute Dawson’s first involvement saw him pick up a yellow card after a loose pass caused him to lunge in on Evanilson.
After Strand Larsen had offered hope of a comeback, Dawson’s sloppy backpass one minute and 26 seconds later handed Bournemouth the victory. Wolves will be hopeful of stamping out those errors in their next game against Everton at Goodison Park on Wednesday.
Dutch delight for the Cherries
Kluivert’s historic showing will see him receive many of the plaudits, but Bournemouth were worthy winners in an impressive away performance.
In a pulsating opening 18 minutes, the Cherries could have found themselves even further than two goals in front after carving out chances with ease.
Shortly after taking the lead through Kerkez, Ryan Christie forced Sa into a strong save low down to his right before Evanilson squandered a glorious opportunity inside the area, failing to make the desired connection from Kluivert’s inviting delivery.
Bournemouth’s ability to press high on their opponents gathered boos from the home supporters at half-time, and they continued that good work from the first half. But they will have been frustrated at allowing Strand Larsen to make things slightly nervier, with Goncalo Guedes’ deflected effort also testing Kepa in the closing stages.
But Kluivert’s record-breaking encounter could not have come without Evanilson, who along with his Dutch team-mate, became the first player to win three penalties in the same game in the Premier League.
Club reports
Wolves report | Bournemouth report
Match officials
Referee: Peter Bankes. Assistants: Nick Greenhalgh, Craig Taylor. Fourth official: Rob Jones. VAR: Paul Tierney. Assistant VAR: Scott Ledger.
